Alternating_from_side_to_side_a_dozen_strokes_will_true_the
edge.

Put the' knife on the steel as often as the edge needs it. Aim to
have the blade sharp always.

(c) Care of knives . g Every first-class meatman takes a personal
interest in keeping his equipment in number one condition at all
times. The sharp edge of a knife, like a razor, can be dulled easily.
For that reason knives should never be thrown into a drawer with
other tools. A wood strip (1 by 2 by 12 to 20 inches long) can be
made secure to the bottom of a table drawer, first sawing notches
into it at intervals of 2 to 3 inches. These .cuts (notches) should be
made about 1^4 inches deep and of such width that a knife blade
will fit easily into them. Arranged in order in these notches, the
knives are readily available and at the same time the edges are pro-
tected. In many instances a knife holder is fastened to the side of


Digitized by Google


18


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
18


the meat block. This may be handier than the drawer arrangement,
but to protect the knives as well as the holder the knife handles
should not protrude above the edge of the block. Whatever method





is followed, it is essential that tools should receive the care and
attention they deserve. Government specifications provide good
knives. If cared for they will give satisfactory service for a long
time.


19

.. Original from

gi izec y UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10&gt;405
18


THE ARMY COOK


{d) Responsibility for knives. g Each cook should have his own
tools and the mess sergeant should make him responsible for their |
care and condition. If this plan is followed the tools are much more
likely to be in proper condition at all times. When several men use
the same knives there is no incentive for anyone to care for them.

As a result they are usually in bad shape. Even though the kitchen
has only a limited number of steak and boning knives, they should be
divided as equally as possible among the cooks. From the standpoint
of getting the work done, one sharp knife is worth more than six dull
ones; but until each cook is made responsible for his own tools the
Army cannot expect to find sharp knives in its kitchens. At the close
of work each man should check his tools with the mess sergeant, who
in turn takes charge of them until the cook returns to duty.

(2) Cleaver . g ^Use this piece of cutlery as little as possible. Unless
it is very sharp and used properly, the cleaver will shatter the bone
and fill the surrounding meat with tiny bone splinters. These
splinters not only cause inconvenience in eating but they are dan-
gerous. It may become necessary to rush some man to a hospital
because a bone splinter has lodged in his throat.

(3) Meat hand hook. g Although a meathook is inconvenient to
one not accustomed to its use, it is in reality a valuable aid in boning
meat. It not only saves time but it eliminates most of the danger of
cutting fingers in the boning operation.

(4) Metal mesh glove. g In addition to the meat hook, workers in
large packing plants have discovered that a metal mesh finger glove,
worn on the left hand, is a good protection against cutting fingers
while boning meat. The glove is made of a fine metal mesh which
is flexible and interferes in no way with the action of the fingers. It
covers the thumb and the first and second fingers. A strap on the
wrist holds the glove in place. It is a practical safeguard for anyone
who is boning meat.

(5) Meat saw. g A saw with a dull blade will not do satisfactory
work. Three blades should be available at all times for each saw,
one in use and two in reserve. When a blade loses its edge and set,
it should be replaced with a sharp one. When two blades are dulled
they should be exchanged at the commissary for two sharp ones.
Saws are sharpened by filing, and the teeth need to be set occasionally
to give them the proper angle to prevent dragging. This requires
special equipment. The average person is not competent to set and
sharpen saw blades. The standard saw with a 20- to 24-inch blade
is best for most commercial purposes. However, the small one
issued for field duty will answer in an emergency.


Digitized by Google


20


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
18-19


d. Keeping meat tools clean. g (1) Every piece of kitchen equip-
ment, especially that which comes in direct contact with food, must
be kept clean. Meat tools are no exception, but as long as wood
handles are fastened on metal, as is the case with most knives,
cleavers, and saws, the problem of keeping the tools in condition to
pass rigid inspection will continue to exist. Begardless of the care
exercised in manufacturing the knife, it is impossible to rivet two
pieces of wood to a piece of steel and not leave a crack or crevice for
dirt to collect. Boiling water is not the solution to the problem.
Hot water soaks into the wood, causing it to expand. As the wood
drys it shrinks. In a short time the handles are loose and the
cracks and crevices are bigger than ever.

(2) A good practice is to fill all the cracks around the handle with
plastic wood; then do not let the piece of cutlery lie in hot water.
There is no occasion for leaving a knife in water for any length of
time. The knife, cleaver, or saw can be kept clean by simply wip-
ing, then rinsing in clean water, and wiping with a dry cloth. The
preceding treatment not only will prolong the life of the cutlery, but
will help keep it in better shape for inspection.

