Army_field_ranges_installing_and_handling_g_a_When
used . g Army field ranges are used by troops in the field when not
equipped with rolling kitchens or other cooking equipment.

h. Classification . g There are three types of field ranges  Army
field range No. 1, Army field range No. 2, and Army gasoline field
range M1937 (par. 78).

(1) Description., installation., and operation of field rcmge No. 1 . g
(a) Army field range No. 1, complete, weighs approximately 264
pounds with utensils, and with the addition of the Alamo attachment,

114


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10^05
77


is designed to cook for 150 men. It consists essentially of two
parts g ^the oven (No. 41) and the boiling plate. The boiling plate
has three sections (No. 42, and the Alamo attachments, Nos. 42A
and 42B).

(&amp;) On the march, field range No. 1 is ordinarily set up by level-
ing the ground selected and placing the oven (No. 41) and boiling
plate (No. 42) side by side, so that the oven door and the firebox
door will be at the same end. Draw together 42A and 42B and secure
bar lock. Insert 42 (boiling plate) into 42 A and rest 42B snugly
on the angle iron on the rear of the oven. The oven should not be
banked as this would cause the sheet iron along the sides to warp
and finally burn through. Sufficient earth, however, should be
tamped along the sides and closed end to prevent the passage of gases
beneath, but should not extend above the straps along the sides and
under the oven door. (See fig. 19.) If heavy weights, such as large
cans of water, are placed on the boiling plate, lay angle irons across
the plate so that the weight will come on the walls and not on the
center of the plate. This will prevent warping and breaking down
the center of the plate.

{c) When used for 1 day only, a few shovelfuls of earth should be
removed from the place to be covered by the boiling plate ( see fig. 191
to facilitate firing. The best results are obtained by using short



FiGURB 19. g Sketch of Army field range No. 1, with Alamo attachments, assembled for use

in the field.

115


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

77


THE ARMY COOK


wood, keeping the fire well toward the firing end of the boiling plate ;
or, if using long sticks and branches, pushing them under the boiling
plate as they are consumed.

{d) If the range is to remain in place for several days, it is best to
dig a trench (except in sandy soil) about 18 inches wide by 6 inches
deep at the front and the length of the boiling plate, say 6 feet, slop-
ing upward to about 5 inches in depth at the back end (fig. 20).


Q


pen



41


nzl



Figure 20. g Sketch of range with or without trench.


When installed, the trench should extend under the boiling plate
and about 1 foot under the Alamo attachment (just enough to facili-
tate the draft) and about 6 inches under the oven. When the range
is set up on different ground daily, no difficulty will be experienced
in obtaining the proper temperature in the oven, both for top and
bottom heat. Whenever it remains in the same spot for a longer time
than 1 day, the ground will become dried out and hot, and it may
be necessary to raise the bakepans about 2 inches off the floor of the
oven. This can be done easily by the use of angle irons or other
means, thereby causing an air space under the bakepans. Never use
earth or sand for this purpose as it would cause a hole to burn in
the bottom plate of the oven.

(e) If the range is to be used for a considerable length of time in
one location it should be elevated on a base of bricks or of stones and
clay. In this case no trenches are dug under the range. The ground
is leveled, and a brick floor may be laid if sufficient bricks are avail-
able. Set up the range, temporarily, on the level ground or on the
brick floor, and mark the outline of the range. Then remove the
range and attachments and construct a wall, 3 bricks high and 8
inches wide on the line and on the line between the oven and boiling
plate. Assemble the range on top of the brick walls. Under the
oven place a number of bricks on edge, spaced %-inch apart. These
liold the heat and improve baking. The spaces (fire channel) inside
the brick walls under boiling plate No. 42 and gas chamber under
Alamo attachments Nos. 42A and 42B, and under oven are about


Digitized by Google


116


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

77


the same as if a trench had been dug as in figure 21. Bank outside
of brick walls at sides and back of range with clean earth.



Figure 21. g Sketch of trenching for range with attachments.


(/) At times it may be necessary to install this range for cooking on
a railroad car or on a wooden floor of a house, shed, etc. To install,
erect a frame 12 inches high, 6 feet long, and 4 feet 6 inches wide ; fill
with sand and set the oven and boiling plate on top of the sand,
anchoring firmly in place. If clay is available, remove all stones,
pebbles, etc. ; add salt water, and sand. This foundation will become
hard and solid and will prevent the burning of the floor.

(2) Description^ installation^ and operation of field range No. g
{a) The Army field range No. 2, complete, weighs about 150 pounds
with utensils, and is designed to cook for 56 men. This range does
not have the Alamo attachments. It consists essentially of two
parts g ^the oven (No. 61) and boiling plate (No. 62).

(b) Field range No. 2 is set up practically the same as No. 1, the
boiling plate being placed in position and the projecting collar being
slipped into the space cut from one end of the oven for that purpose.
The fire is maintained in the same manner as when using the No. 1
range.

(&lt;?) If the range is to remain in place for several days, it is best to
dig a trench, except in sandy soil, about 16 inches wide by 6 inches
deep, and of sufficient length for free fueling, say 5 feet (see fig. 22).
When installed, the trench should extend under the boiling plate and
about 3 inches under the oven g just enough to prevent choking of the
draft. If the flame is allowed to play freely on the bottom of the
oven chamber, it will become too hot for baking and the bottom of
the oven will soon burn out.


Digitized by Google


117


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CAMFO PNiA i


TM 10-405

77


THE ARMY COOK



Fiouhe 22 .

c. Remarks on handling ranges. g (1) Ccere of ranges.  (a) A tin
will be found inside the baking chamber which may be used if for
any reason the bottom of the oven is too hot. Should the bottom be
too cold for efficient baking the tin should be removed.

(&amp;) Coal should never be used when wood is obtainable. If pos-
sible, even when coal is used, part of the fuel should be wood, for
the use of coal alone will quickly destroy the range.

(c) In permanent camp, the space above and on the sides of the
oven and stovepipe should be cleaned at least once a week. This also
applies to the boiling plates.

(2) Assemblage for transportation. g ^When breaking camp and
assembling range No. 1 for transportation, draw boiling plate No. 42
forward. Unfasten the bar lock, pull apart, and remove Nos. 42A
and 42B and proceed as indicated below :

(a) To pack the utensils and range No. 1 for transportation, place
the bakepan No. 52 on the ground. Set boiler No. 50 inside of bake-
pan No. 52 and boiler No. 51 inside of boiler No. 50. Place tent
guards inside of boiler No. 51 on bottom. Telescope the four joints
of pipe. Inside of the pipe place two forks, three knives, one steel,
one cleaver, and two folding lanterns. Place joints of pipe contain-
ing utensils inside of boiler No. 51. Place meat chopper in boiler
No. 51 alongside of joints of pipe. Place two basting spoons, one
meat saw, and one skimmer in boiler No. 51, on top of pipe. Cover
with lid No. 51 and then lid No. 50. Place bakepan No. 52 upside
down over lid No. 50. Care should be taken that bakepan handles are
well down to the sides of the pan. Place stovepipe elbow in No. 54.
Place dippers alongside of elbow. Place covers Nos. 54, 53, 49, and
48 on boilers in order named. Place nested boilers Nos. 48, 49, 53, and
54 in rear end of oven. Place bakepan and nested boilers Nos. 50
and 51 in front end of oven. Close the oven door and lock with
damper lock. Place No. 42A on left front corner of oven No. 41, and


Digitized by Google


118


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
77


No. 42B on right front corner, inserting bar in crimp. This bar now
rests against the pipe collar and prevents sliding. Place boiling plate
No. 42 on top of range, eye fitting over stovepipe flange and engaging



Figure 23. g Field range No. 1, set up, front and right side, with boiling plate and Alamo

attachments.

under the flat hook. Make secure by fastening hook on front of boil-
ing plate to the lug on back of range. The range is now secure for
transportation. (See figs. 23 to 26, inch)

(b) To pack utensils and range No. 2 for transportation, place
bakepan No. 52 on the ground. Set boiler No. 50 inside of bakepan


Digitized by


Google


119


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



in-i‘^n nii npi rAAAAAA//:rliTi i / n?i7niFiin-;::)iFinno 'iiiPiiinn Tiinnj


■


K 10-405

77 THE ARMY COOK

►. 52 and boiler No. 51 inside of No. 50. Place tent guards on bot-
n of boiler No. 51. Telescope the four joints of stovepipe. Inside
pipe place two forks, two knives, one steel, two spoons, one lantern




LKB 24. g Field range No. 1, set up, rear and right side, with boiling plate and Alamo

attachments.

)lding), and one skimmer. Place dipper and elbow alongside
&gt; pipe. Place meat saw in bakepan No. 52 alongside of boilers,
ver boilers with lids Nos. 51 and 50. Place bakepan No. 52 upside
vn over lid No. 50. Place pans in range oven. Place the boiling
ite at the door end of the oven. Engage the flanges on the inner
e of boiling plate with the lugs on the door end of the oven.


Digitized by


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


puDiic uomain, uoogie-aigiiiizea / nti:p://www.nai:nitrusi:.org/access_use^rpa-googie


TM 10-405

THE ARMY COOK 77



