Army_gasoline_field_range_M_g_a_Description_of
range . g The range has been designed to perform a variety of cooking
operations using gasoline as fuel. Either white or ethyl gasoline



Figure 30. g One unit of range with cooking equipment in place.


may be used. In emergencies it may be operated with wood as fuel,
a collapsible grate being provided for this purpose. The construction j
of the range in small units makes it suitable for any size organization i
(figs. 30, 31, and 32). One, two, or three units may be installed across


Digitized


Goigle


126


Original from


UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA j


THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

78


the front end of the 1^-ton truck, opening toward the rear of the
truck. The fire unit is separate from the cabinet and may be used in



FiGUKB 31. g One unit of range with cooking vessels uncovered, and in position for serving

food.


three different positions in the cabinet. The fire unit may also be
operated outside of the cabinet.


Digitizec by-


Go gle


127


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10-405
78


THE ARMY COOK



Figure 32. g Three units of range latched together for cooking in transport, showing tie-in
chains for anchoring range in truck or railway car. (Right-hand unit is set up for
boiling and roasting, middle unit for frying, and left-hand unit for griddle cooking).


h. To operate -fire unit (fig. 33). g (1) Close all valves tight.

(2) Fill fuel tank and replace cap tight.

(3) Remove filter cap; remove dirty filter disk; wipe filter cap
and body clean; insert new filter disk.

(4) Be certain ground joint is clean.

(5) Tighten filter cap screw firmly.

(6) Pump pressure to about 40 pounds.

(7) Pull out burner control rod.

(8) Open air shutter wide.

(9) Open air valve one-half turn.

(10) Open fuel valve one-half turn.

(11) Hold lighted match over end of burner arm and open flame
valve one-half turn.

(12) After flame starts keep color green by adjusting air valve.

( 13 ) When air valve can be closed generator is hot.

(14) Push in burner control rod.

(15) Regulate size of flame with flame valve.

(16) Keep flame green with air shutter.

(17) To stop flame, close fuel valve.

(18) Do not leave flame valve closed when hot.


Digitized by Google


128


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
78



