Army_method_of_cutting_lamh_g_In_order_that_carcass_lamb_may
be used to the best advantage in the Army menu, a special method
of cutting was developed. This method utilizes the whole lamb as
two major cuts, the long saddle and the triangle. The long saddle,
which includes the legs, loin, and hotel rack, is used for boneless
roasts. The triangle, consisting of the shoulders, breasts, shanks, and
neck, is used for boneless stew. This method of cutting yields about
the right proportion of stew and roasts. One hundred pounds of car-
cass lamb will provide approximately 24 pounds of boneless stew and
35 pounds of boneless roast. If more roast lamb and less stew is
desired, either one or both shoulders can be rolled for roasting. When
one shoulder is roasted with the cuts from the long saddle, 100 pounds
of lamb will provide approximately 44 pounds of boneless roasts,
leaving 15 pounds of boneless lamb for stew. Of course, the entire


Digitized by Google


42


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

23


lamb could be used for either of these dishes, but the division just
described gives variety in the menu and is the most economical
method of using the carcass.

c. Cutting lanxb triangle . g These instructions will start with* the
full carcass since it is assumed that most lamb for the Army will be
purchased in carcass form. It is recommended that the triangles be
cut up for stew first, leaving the long saddles for a later meal. The
fat covering inside and outside the long saddles gives them the neces-
.sary protection for a few days of aging.

(1) Put the lamb on the block with the back up.

(2) Use the knife and saw to remove the neck at the point where it
joins the shoulder.

(3) Pull the fell and excess fat from the outside of the neck. Re-
move the neck bone in one piece. Pidl out the backstrap, then cut the
boneless meat into suitable pieces for stew.

(4) Turn the carcass on its side, breasts nearest the cutter.

(5) Start at the cod fat and cut through the uppermost flank to
about the middle of the thirteenth rib. Continue cutting over the
ribs to a point about 1 inch above the elbow joint, then cut straight
across the arm bone. Saw across the arm bone; then hold the flank
firmly in the left hand and saw across the ribs, following the cut made
with the knife.

(6) Remove the shank and breast from the other side of the lamb.
This can be done by dropping the saw blade on the first rib of the
lower breast (the position of the lamb is not changed) and sawing
parallel to the cut made in removing the upper breast. Saw through
ribs, arm bone, and meat from the first to the thirteenth rib, then
finish with a knife by cutting through the flank to the cod fat.

(7) Separate the shanks from the breasts. Pull the fell from the
shanks. Remove the meat from the bones and cut it into stewing
pieces.

(8) Take one breast at a time, with rib side up, and cut under the
uiaphragm muscle to expose the rib cartilages. Then slide the knife
underneath the rib bones and lift them out by guiding the knife
closely along the bones. Turn the breast over and pull off the fell.
Trim off all surplus fat. Cut boneless meat into pieces for stew.

(9) Turn the remaining section of the lamb on its back. Cut and
saw between the fifth and sixth ribs on each side of the carcass to
separate the square-cut shoulders from the long saddle.

(10) Separate the two shoulders from the ribs and the unsplit
backbone. Start with the arm sections of the shoulders up. Loosen


Digitized by


Google


43


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



S. 10-405
23


THE ARMY COOK


Digitized by


LAMB CHART

_ LOCATION AND NAMES _
OF WHOLESALE CUTS




Prepared for the United States Army by the

NATIONAL LIVE STOCK AND MEAT • O A R D

Figure 13 .


Googl&lt;


44


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

23


Digitized by


LAMB CHART


LOCATION, STRUCTURE
AND NAMES OF BONES



AITCH BONEx
HIP BONE .


TAIL BONEn,
SLIP JOINT

N

CHINE BONE^..^
FINGER BONES^.
BACKBONE'..

'x,

FEATHER or
SPINE BONES'''.,

BUTTONS'..^

BLADE BONEn
CARTILAGE ''',

BLADEBONE'-..^

RIDGE of
BLADEBONE""

NECKBONE--

ATLASg .

ARM

KNUCKLE bone'


ARM BONE


LOWER HIND
SHANK BONES

BREAK JOINT
■HIND SHANK BONE

•STIFLE JOINT
SHANK

KNUCKLE BONE
''-KNEECAP
''''LEG BONE
RUMP

KNUCKLE BONE


,,,'RIB CARTILAGES

,, /BREASTBONE
y /

/ /ELBOW BONE
/ /

SHANK

'KNUCKLE BONES
-'BREAK JOINT
.--FORE SHANK BONES
LOWER

"FORE SHANK BONES


Prepared for the United States Army by the

NATIONAL LIVE STOCK AND MEAT lOARD

Figure 14.


Got'gle


45


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10-405
23


THE ARMY COOK


(he meat by cutting down toward the block alongside the rib bones,
then along the spine or feather bones, first on one shoulder, then the
other. Turn the shoulders over so that the arm sections are down.
Cut around the backbone from the top side to finish removing the
shoulder ribs and backbone.

(11) Pull the backstrap from the back sides of both shoulders.

(12) Work on one shoulder at a time. Place the shoulder on the
block, outside down. Open the shoulder from the rib and arm sides.
Cut back into the meat, parallel with the block, until the arm bones
and bladebones are exposed. With the tip of the knife cut along the
edges of these two bones. Unjoint and remove the armjbone. Scrape
the front end of the ridgebone, then pull out the shoulder blade.

(13) When the shoulder is to be used for stew, remove surplus fat
while cutting the meat into small pieces.

(14) If one or both shoulders are to be roasted, roll and tie, using
the rib side as the face of the roll.

d. Cutting long saddle . g The shoulders and the long saddle are
the most desirable sections of the lamb for roasts. The roasts from
the long saddle are the boneless rack, boneless loin, and boneless legs.

(1) Separate the hotel rack from the loin by cutting across both
flanks to the backbone, immediately back of the thirteenth rib. Com-
plete the separation by sawing across the backbone. There will be
eight ribs in the hotel rack, since five ribs were left in the shoulders.

(2) Place the rack on the block, meat side down and ribs pointing
up. Run the knife down, close to the ribs and feather bones, on both
sides of the rack. This will loosen the meat from the bones on the end
of the rack nearest the cutter. Turn the rack, end for end, and repeat
the boning process. The meat should now be entirely free from the
bones, and in two pieces.

(3) Remove the bladebone cartilages from the shoulder ends of the
two pieces of rack meat. Pull the backstraps from the meat and re-
move surplus fat.

(4) In order to make the boneless roll uniform in thickness, reverse
the ends of the two pieces of meat. Lay one piece of meat on the
block, fat side down. Lay the cut surface of the second piece on the
cut surface of the first piece in such a manner that the eye muscles
will touch each other. Roll and tie with three or four cords.

(5) Separate the loin from the legs by cutting just in front of the
hip bones.

(6) With fell side resting on the block, cut all kidney fat from the
inside of the loin.

(7) Lift the kidneys from the kidney fat.


Digitized by Google


46


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
23-24


' (8) With the tip of the knife loosen the tenderloins on each side of

tlie backbone. Slide the knife along the finger bones to roll the
tenderloins back over the flanks.

(9) Cut back under the finger bones, then down along the feather
or spine bones on each side of the backbone. When lifting out the
backbone be careful not to cut through the thin meat that connects
tlie two pieces of boneless loin.

(10) Fold the loin together and tie with three or four cords.

(11) Split the two legs. With the outside of legs up, saw length-
wise down through the center of the backbone and tail bone.

(12) . Bone one leg at a time. First, place leg on block with inside
of leg up. Cut away all surplus fat around the aitchbone and flank
side of leg.

(13) Cut through the stifle joint to separate the shank meat and
shank bones from the leg.

(14) Pull the fell from the shank meat. Trim the meat from the
shank bone. The shank meat will be used later ( (18) below).

(16) Remove the pelvic bone (aitchbone and hip) and the backbone
and tail bone. These bones can be taken out in one piece, although
the job is made somewhat easier when they are separated at the slip
joint (fig. 14). The first step is to loosen and roll back the tenderloin
so the hip section of the pelvic bone will be exposed.

(16) Unjoint the pelvic bone from the leg bone. Continue to cut
closely around the pelvic bone to separate it from the meat. Keep
cutting until the pelvic bone, backbone, and tail bone have been
removed from the leg.

(17) Split the inside of the leg open lengthwise to expose the
leg bone. Cut meat from around the leg bone so that it may be lifted
out. Also remove the kneecap from the shank end of the leg.

(18) Use shank meat to fill opening in leg where pelvic bone was
removed.

(19) Roll the boneless leg lengthwise and tie it into shape.

