Baking_g_a_General___Every_cook_should_have_a_good
working knowledge of baking to supplement the bakery goods sup-
plied by the post bakery. Breads are divided into two general
classes : fermented and unfermented.

(а) Fermented bread is leavened by the gas formed by yeast. The
yeast also acts upon the gluten and starch, making them more di-
gestible, and gives a distinctive flavor not present in unleavened bread.
There are two principal types of yeast bread: plain dough used in
baking bread ; and sweet dough, which contains more sugar, shorten-
ing, and eggs, and is used for rolls, cinnamon rolls, and coffee cakes.

(б) Unfermented breads are made without yeast, generally being
leavened with baking powder. These products include biscuits, muf-
fins, pancakes, corn bread, and waffles.

(2) Good baked products can be obtained only through the use
of good ingredients and the exact weights and measures given in the
formula. In cooking you taste and adjust ingredients as you prepare
and cook the food. In baking this cannot be done, so you must follow
instructions and formulas implicitly.

&amp;. Ingredients. g (1) Flour .  ^Flour is the chief ingredient of baked
goods. There are three types of white flour to consider for baking.
Hard wheat (also classified as spring wheat) flours are best for bread
making. This is because the gluten of hard wheat flour possesses
properties of toughness and elasticity which enable the dough to
stretch and hold gases produced in it by the action of yeast. Soft
flours are usually milled from winter wheat, which is generally poor
in gluten but rich in starch, and generally used for the baking of
pastry and cakes. “All purpose flour” is a blend of flours that is
higher in gluten than the hard- wheat flours. This flour is used for
sweet doughs. This flour will also give satisfactory results for pastry
and cakes. Bread flour will also give a satisfactory cake if a richer
formula is used, that is, more shortening, sugar, and eggs.

(2) Yeast . g ^The most satisfactory temperature for the growth of
yeast is from 75° to 90° F. It ceases to grow when the temperature is
below 30° F. and is killed at about 200° F. Three types of yeast are
in general use for bread making :

(a) In compressed yeast the yeast plants are alive and ready for
action. It is very perishable and must be kept under refrigeration
until it is to be used. When old, compressed yeast becomes slightly
slippery and has an unpleasant odor.

(&amp;) Dehydrated yeast is in granular form and is handled in the
same manner as compressed yeast. It has better keeping qualities
than compressed yeast. This yeast will keep its leavening qualities


Digitized by Google


98


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

64


for several weeks after removal from the refrigerator and for that
reason is a good yeast for use where daily delivery of compressed yeast
cannot be made.

(c) Dry yeast is a mass of yeast plants dried to spore stage, mixed
with corn meal, and pressed into cakes. This yeast will keep for
several months under ordinary storage. As the dried plants are
inactive they take some time to become active again after warmth,
moisture, food, and air are supplied. When dried yeast is used for
baking, the sponge method should be used.

(3) Baking powder . g ^The leavening best suited for the production
of pancakes, biscuits, cakes, and doughnuts is baking powder. Baking
powders may be classified by rapidity of gas release as slow or quick
acting. Quick'acting will release all of the leavening gas (carbon
dioxide) in the cold when added to the dough. The slow acting will
release part of the gas in the cold but requires heat to complete the
action. Some slow acting baking powders are also known as “double
acting” as part of the action takes place in the cold and part after
exposure to heat. The quick acting baking powders are not suitable
for the baking of pancakes or doughnuts as the leavening escapes
from the dough while waiting to be baked. A general rule to follow
in the use of baking powder is one-half ounce of slow or double
acting powder to 1 pound of flour or 1 ounce of quick acting baking
powder to 1 pound of flour. Use of the following table will assist
the cook in determining what powder he is using :


Ingredients as stated on label

Action

Amount
per pound
of flour

Cream of tartar, and/or tartaric acid, bicarbonate of

Quick

Ounce

1

soda, starch.

Calcium acid phosphate, bicarbonate of soda, starch _

Slow or double


Sodium aluminum sulfate (SAS), monocalcium

do


phosphate, bicarbonate of soda.




(4) Baking soda . g Baking soda may be used as a leavening agent
in the presence of acid, that is, with sour milk or vinegar. Canned
milk can be converted into sour milk by adding 3 tablespoonfuls of
vinegar to a 14)4 -ounce can of evaporated milk. Baking soda is also
used in baking of cakes where an acid product such as chocolate is
used to neutralize the acid for proper leavening effect and give the
chocolate a darker color.

(5) Eggs . g Eggs are used for leavening cakes made without


Digitized by Google


99


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

64-«5


THE ARMY COOK


shortening, such as sponge and angel cake. They serve as part of
the leavening in “butter” cakes, muffins, and other quick breads.

(6) Miscellaneous ingredients. g The liquids used with yeast should
be scalded to kill any organisms which might develop in the dough
and then cooled to lukewarm before the yeast is added. The liquids
used with baking powder should be at room temperature. All in-
gredients must be carefully measured or weighed to obtain best re-
sults. Excess amount of any one ingredient may result in an inferior
product or failure.

(7) Oven temperatures. g The proper control of oven temperatures
is another important procedure in baking. Pies should be placed in
a hot oven, 500® F. for 10 minutes to set the shortening in the dough
and then reduced to 350° F. to bake the filling. Bread should be
baked at 450° F. to obtain the best volume and texture. The sweeter
products should be baked at lower temperatures to avoid burning
the sugar ; sweet doughs at 400° F. and cakes at 350° F.

