Basic_sweet_dough

2 pounds flour, soft (pastry) ounces salt

6% pounds flour, hard (Issue) 1 pound fat (lard or lard substitute)

2 quarts milk, or water, or 2 cans milk, 8 eggs
evaporated, diluted with 2 pints water % ounce mace or nutmeg
% pound yeast, compressed, or 1% % ounce lemon extract or 4 lemons
pounds yeast, dried grated, rind and all

] pound sugar

This recipe produces one basic sweet dough and provides sufficient
dough to make about 225 buns, doughnuts, etc., or an equivalent quan-

221

Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

264


THE ARMY COOK


tity of coffee cake, etc. Therefore, one basic sweet dough is sufficient
for 100 men. For 200 men, use two basic sweet doughs; for 50 men
use one-half of one basic sweet dough, etc.

Straight-dough method . g Cream thoroughly the sugar, salt, fat, and
spice, then add eggs gradually and cream until light. Add flavoring
extract. Dissolve the yeast in one-fourth of the milk which should
be at a temperature of about 80° F. Add remainder of milk to the
creamed mass and stir thoroughly to dissolve all ingredients. Add
hard flour and begin mixing. Pour on yeast solution, add soft flour,
and continue mixing until the dough is smooth and free from lumps.
This dough should be slacker than ordinary bread dough. Begulate
water or milk to have a dough not too slack to handle. Set to rise
in temperature of about 80° F. and cover with cloth. Allow to fer-
ment (rise) until dough around impressions made by moderate pres-
sure of two fingers starts to recede, then give first punch. The first
rise requires about hours. In hot weather, or when it is impossible
to keep the temperature of the dough down to 80° F., it is best to
punch the dough young, about 45 minutes after mixing, as overfermen-
tation ruins sweet dwngh more than any other factor. After punching,
allow to stand 15 or 20 minutes, then work into desired forms. Cover
dough not being worked to prevent crusting.

Comments . g The addition of 4 ounces of baker’s malt, when avail-
able, to the above ingredients will improve the dough. All hard flour
may be used if soft flour is not available. In such case substitute 1V2
pounds cornstarch for an equal amount of flour.

This is a yeast-raised dough to which additional sugar may be added
after fermentation. It is usually enriched by the addition of eggs,
spices, butter, citron, lemon peel, raisins, nuts, etc., and is manipulated
into desired forms. It may be made by the straight-dough or sponge
methods. The sponge method (given below) is used when speed
- is essential.

If the dough must be handled in a cold room, some means should be
found to keep the temperature around 80° F. The dough may be
placed in a suitable vessel and this vessel placed in a fireless cooker
or into a larger container lined with sacks or hay. Close the top of
larger container and keep in a warm place, if possible.

At least 50 different forms of cakes, rolls, buns, etc., may be made
from this sweet dough. This is done by taking the desired quantity
of the sweet dough for the product to be made, adding such additional
quantities of sugar, butter, eggs, fruits, citron, lemon peel, nuts, etc.,
as desired for richness, and working into desired form.

Quick sponge method . g Dissolve all the yeast (^ pound) in 1 pint
of the liquid. Dissolve all the sugar (1 pound) in 1 pint of the liquid.


Digitized by


Google


222


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
264-267


Pour the dissolved yeast over 3 pounds of the hard flour and mix
slightly. Pour the dissolved sugar into the mixture and mix well.
Set to stand in a warm place (about 90° F.) . This will become spongy
in about 20 minutes, hence the name “sponge.” As soon as it has become
light and spongy, put it into a mixing bowl, add remainder of liquid,
and stir well to break up the sponge. Then cream the salt, fat, spice,
and eggs, and add flavoring extract as for the straight-dough method.
Add the cream mixture and stir well, then add remainder of flour and
mix thoroughly. Allow to rest about 5 minutes and then commence
working into the desired form.

