Beef_cutting_g_a_General__In_cutting_beef_carcasses_consid
eration is given to the suitability of different cuts for different pur-
poses. Lean beef is not all of the same tenderness. In general, the
muscles (lean meat) of locomotion used for work, such as walking
and running, are not as tender as the supporting muscles which are
found along the back of the carcass. Since the meat differs in
tenderness, the object of cutting beef is to separate the less tender
meat from the tender; and for the sake of uniform cooking, the thin
meat is separated from the thick meat. The less tender wholesale
cuts include the chuck, shank, brisket, plate, flank, and round. The
tender ones are the rib, short loin, and loin end. All cuts of meat,
however, are tender when properly cooked.

h. Division of heef side into wholesale market cuts. g (1) ^The beef
chart (fig. 2) shows the entire side of beef broken into wholesale cuts.
This chart is especially valuable since it shows the location of each
wholesale cut in relationship to the full side. It will be noticed that
the hindquarter includes the round, rump, loin end, short loin, and
flank. The forequarter cuts are rib, chuck, shank, brisket, and plate.

(2) Figure 3 shows the location, structure, and names of the bones
in a side of beef. The solid lines show the division of the whole-
sale cuts as illustrated in figure 2. It will be noted that the side
of beef has 13 ribs. These are numbered from 1 to 13, beginning at
the front end. The hindquarter and forequarter are usually sepa-
rated between the twelfth and thirteenth ribs. The chuck contains
parts of the first 5 ribs. This leaves parts of 7 ribs, from the sixth
to the twelfth, inclusive, in the wholesale market rib.

c. Gutting carcass heef. g For the most part, carcass beef, as well
as wholesale market cuts, can be used to best advantage in the Army
mess if it is first boned. When cut this way the various muscles can
be separated and cooked according to the method designed to make
them most tender and palatable. In addition, the boneless cuts will
be easier to carve after they are cooked. A great deal of study was
given to developing the method of cutting described in the following
paragraphs. Dozens of carcasses of beef were cut up in every con-
ceivable manner in order to develop a style that would be easy to
follow, and at the same time would provide a maximum number of
good solid pieces of meat suitable for a variety of cooking methods.
It is recommended, therefore, that the Army cook follow carefully
the instructions given here in order to get the greatest amount of


Digitized by Google


22


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



I


HORT

LOIN


IB


CHUCK


TM 10-405

20


THE ARMY COOK



BEEF CHART

LOCATION, STRUCTURE.
~AND NAMES OF BONES


HOCK BONES


AITCH Of
RUMP BONE


HIND SHANK BONE


STFLE JONT


SHANK

KNUCKLE BONE


KNEECAP-


ROUND BONE


RUMP

KNUCKLE BONE


CHINE BO€


FINGER BONES


BACKBONE


FEATHER or
SPINE BONES


RIB CARTILA(3ES


BUnONS


BLADE BONE
CARTILAGE


BREASTBONE


ELBOW BONE


BLADEBONE


RIDGE of
BLADEBONE


SHANK

KNUCKLE BONES


NECKBONE


FORE SHANK BONES


ATLAS


ARM

KNUCKLE BONE


Prepared f.or the United States Army by the

NATIONAL LIVE STOCK AND MEATKOARD

Figrub 8.


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


Digitized by



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405


usable meat from a side of beef. Incidentally, this method of cut-
ting will produce the same kind of boneless cuts as the Army will
be purchasing for its standard menus.

d. Gutting forequarter . g ^The forequarter is placed on the block
with the meat side down. In this position the backbone, breastbone,
and ribs are in plain sight, thus simplifying the job of cutting
around them.

(1) Pull the wooden or metal pin from the beef neck, if present.

(2) Un joint and remove the atlas joints. This is the first vertebra
of the neck.

(3) Trim the bloody meat from the throat side of the neck.

(4) Remove loose heart fat which lies beside the breastbone, then
remove the thin meat which covers the rib cartilages attached to the
breastbone. Loosen brisket meat and fat from around the outside of
the breastbone.

(5) Cut a narrow strip from the thin edge of the skirt, or dia-
phragm muscle. Pull the thin papery membrane from the skirt and
plate meat. With the knife lying nearly parallel with the ribs, cut
under the skirt and over the rib cartilages, thus exposing all the
cartilages attached to the rib bones. The meat which has just been
loosened from the cartilages should be cut free from the plate meat.
Beginning at the breastbone, loosen the plate meat from under the
rib cartilages.

(6) Remove the boneless strip of meat which lies along the chine
bone of the chuck. Loosen the similar strip of meat from the throat
side of the neck bone.

(7) The feather bones, or spine bones, of the forequarter were
scored with a saw in the packing plant. Break and remove the top
or loose half of these bones, all along the back of the forequarter.

(8) Loosen with a knife and pull the back strap (ligamentous
strip) from the full length of the forequarter, starting at the rib end.

(9) Cut back under the remaining sections of the feather bones to
loosen these bones from the meat.

(10) Un joint neck bone where it joins the first rib vertebra. Cut
around and under the neck bone so that it can be lifted from the meat
in one piece.

(11) Separate the rib and plate from the crosscut chuck, leaving
seven ribs on the chuck (fig. 4, line db). This can be done easily by
sawing across the backbone and rib cartilage, between the seventh
and eighth ribs. One full cut with a sharp steak knife will separate
the two pieces of meat.


Digitized by


Google


25


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
20


THE ARMY COOK


(12) Turn the rib and plate over, meat side up. Make a mark with
the knife, one-half inch from the rib eye, at each end of the rib. Cut
across the ribs joining these two knife marks to separate the plate
meat from the rib meat (fig. 4, line cd). Do not saw the ribs.

(13) Starring at this knife mark, cut along parallel to the ribs
and peel th4 plate meat in one piece from the bones, leaving the
intercostal muscles, or rib fingers, attached to the ribs.



Line ah shows where plate and rib are separated from the crosscut chuck leaving seven
ribs on the chuck.

Line cd shows where the plate meat is separated from the rib meat at the edge of the
rib eye.

Figure 4. g Outside skeletal view of forequarter.


(14) Next, cut closely to the ribs and lift the spencer roll from its
cradle of bones.

(15) Remove the rib fingers from between the ribs. This can be
done by running the knife closely along each side of the ribs. Loosen
the rib fingers from the plate side first, then turn the bones around
and work from the backbone side. Each rib finger will come out in
one piece.

(16) Turn the crosscut chuck over so that meat side will be upper-
most. Study figure 5 to see how the shank and arm bones are to be
un jointed from the blade bone.


Digitized by



26


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

THE ARMY COOK 20

( 17) With the rib side of the chuck away from you, start at the
end of the elbow bone a (fig. 5) and pull the knife toward you
until it strikes the arm bone at h. Turn the knife and run it along
the arm bone until it reaches the socket joint at c. At this point
the knife goes through the socket joint to separate the arm bone
from the shoulder blade.

(18) Eemove the meat from in front of the shank bone, starting
at point d (fig. 5). Cut to point e then run the knife over the top
of the arm bone to &amp;. Between points e and h and points c and f
loosen all the meat from the arm bone so that the shank and arm
bones can be lifted to one side. The meat attached to the shank
bone should then be removed.



Dotted lines show path knife should follow in removing shank and aim bones.

Figure 5. g Outside view of blade, arm, and shank bones in a seveii-rib crosscut chuck.

(19) Separate from the brisket the boneless meat that covered
the front part of the shank and arm bones.

(20) The shoulder clod a (fig. 6) is removed by first running
the knife along the side of the ridges of the bladebone. Next,
cut the meat free from the narrow end of the bladebone. Start
pulling the clod from the heavy end toward the back of the chuck,
at the same time cutting underneath the clod meat at the natural seam
which separates it from the brisket. Keep pulling and cutting until
the thin part of the clod has been pulled from the bladebone.

(21) Remove the thin layer of meat which covers the chuck tender
and neck muscles. This may be done by first lainning the tip of the
knife along the top of the ridgebone to loosen the meat at that point.


Digitized by Google


27


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
20


THE ARMY COOK


Pull the layer of meat toward the end of the neck, cutting along
the natural dividing seam as you pull.

(22) Lift out the chuck tender. See figure 6 for the location of
this boneless piece of meat that resembles the tenderloin. First,
run the knife along the ridgebone to loosen the meat from the bone.
Next, cut underneath the tender at the dividing seam, pulling as you
cut.

(23) Pull the boneless neck meat straight out in front of the chuck.
Cut it off at a point 2 inches in front of the bladebone and parallel
with the rib side of the chuck.



Dotted lines show location of shoulder clod a and chuck tender b with respect to blade
bone.

Figure ( 3 . -Outside view of the seven-rib crosscut chuck with arm and shank bones removed.

(24) The bladebone and cartilage attached to it can now be lifted
from the inside chuck muscle. Cut close to the bone so that a
minimum amount of meat will be left attached to the blade.

(25) Separate the thin brisket and rib meat from the thick back
meat by cutting between them at the edge of the eye of the inside
chuck muscle (fig. 7, line ah).

(26) Peel the brisket meat from the ribs by cutting closely to the
bones, leaving the rib fingers attached to the ribs.

( 27 ) Cut across the back muscle between the third and fourth
ribs. The object here is to separate the tender inside chuck meat
from the less tender neck meat.

(28) Cut closely along the ribs to remove the boneless chuck roll,
from the fourth to the seventh ribs, inclusive.


Digitized by Google


28


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

20


(29) Separate the boneless neck roll from the ribs to which it
is attaclied. ,

(30) Remove the rib fingers from between the first seven ribs of the
forequarter as described in (15) above for the comparable five-rib
plate section of the forequarter.

e. Cutting hindquarter . g The outside of the hindquarter should
lie on the block. Most of the work of cutting and boning the beef
hind will be done from the inside which is now uppermost.



I^ine ah indicates division between thin brisket meat 0, and thick back meat 0, ©, and ®.
Liine cd divides the four-rib chuck roll Q from neck roll ©.

Line ch shows where end of neck is separated from neck roll.

Figure 7. g Outside skeletal view of seven-rib crosscut chuck with neck, arm, blade, and

shank l)ones removed.


(1) Remove the clod fat and flank in one piece. This is done by
cutting under the fat and fairly close to the meat of the knuckle
section of the round, then making a straight cut fi’om the front
edge of the knuckle to a point about 6 inches from the eye of the
loin (figs. 3 and 8). It will be necessary to saw across the thirteenth
rib.

(2) With the inside of the flank up, cut a thin strip from the
naval side of the flank, then peel the membrane from the flank steak
and flank meat.

(3) Beginning at the narrow end of the flank, cut and pull the
flank steak back as far as it will come easily. Cut across the flank
to separate the fat fi’om the meat. Remove the bone (part of the
thirteenth rib) from the flank meat.


Digitized by Google


29


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

20


THE ARMY COOK


(4) Tlie clod fat should be cut into thin slices which later may be
tied or laid on lean boneless roasts and pot roasts. This fat protects
the lean meat while it is being cooked and adds to the flavor and
juiciness of the cooked meat.



Dotted line ah shows where flank is removed.

Figure 8. g Outside view of bones in hindquarter of beef.

(5) The hanging tender is attached beneath the kidney knob of the
left hindquarter. It should be removed and split open lengthwise,
so that the gristle running through the center of it can be taken out.

(6) The kidney knob and all surplus fat should be removed from
the inside of the loin and rump. The kidney knob can be cut open
and the kidney removed.


Digitized by Google


30


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

20


(7) To separate the round from the loin and rump, saw through
the tip of the aitchbone (fig. 9, dotted line &lt;?&lt;/), then cut down to
the round bone, cutting as closely as possible to the aitchbone during
the operation. Saw through the round bone and complete the
separation by cutting with the knife.



Dotted line ah shows where flank is removed.

Dotted line cd indicates where the round is separated from tlie rump and loin.

Figure 9. g Inside view of beef hindquarter showing exposed section of aitchbone, backbone,

and thirteenth rib.

(8) The round is to be divided into four boneless cuts g the
knuckle, inside, outside, and heel. This will be comparatively easy
since, with the exception of the heel, the other cuts are separated
by natural dividing seams. (See fig. 10 for location of the four
cuts.) Figure 11 shows the dividing seams which separate the
knuckle, inside, and outside.


Digitized by Google


31


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
20


THE ARMY COOK


(9) With the inside of the round up, use tip of knife to cut
through the thin layer of meat from kneecap to face of the round
above the round bone (fig. 10, dotted line ah). Pull thin layer of
meat and membrane from the outside of the knuckle (jfig. 11, dotted
line asy). Cut meat loose from the knuckle at the block where it
starts to go back under the round.

(10) Cut down the round bone from the kneecap to face of the
round, following the same line made originally with the tip of the
knife (fig. 10, dotted line ab, also fig. 11, line xm).



1, Knuckle.

2 and 3. Inside and outside round.

4 , Heel.

Figure 10. g Outline of beef round showing location of the four major boneless cuts.

(11) Turn round over so that the outside will be uppermost. Use
the tip of the knife to cut from the kneecap to the face of the round.
Peel off the membrane from the outside of the knuckle (fig. 11, dotted
line yz).

(12) With knife, follow the natural seam which separates the

knuckle from the outside round. Cut down to the round bon^from
kneecap to face of round (fig. 11, line sn). 1

(13) Loosen the kneecap (figs. 3 and 10 at point a) and cuf close
to the bone under it. The knuckle meat can now be pulleG^roin
the round bone.


Digitized by Google


32


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

20


(14) Remove the shank by cutting through the stifle joint and
across the meat of the lower round. (See stifle joint, fig. 3, also
fig. 10, dotted line afc.) Stand the shank and the meat attached to
it on end with the hock up. Cut through the opening under the
hock bone to detach the tendon from the heel meat (fig. 10 at point
d). Run the knife along the hind shank bone to remove the heel
piece (fig. 10, dotted line ef). The remaining shank meat can now
be trimmed from the shank bone.

(15) With the inside round up, trim off the surplus fat. Then
cut under and remove the tough membrane which covers the fat-free
section of the inside round (fig. 11, dotted line xw). Next, run the
knife along the top side of the round bone, and cut through the divid-
ing seam to separate the inside and outside pieces.





