Beverages_g_a_Coffee___Coffee_is_the_most_important_bever
age served in the Army. The coffee furnished to Army messes is of
good quality and will make an excellent beverage, provided it has
not lost its strength and the beverage is properly made. Coffee loses
its strength rapidly after roasting and the loss of strength is has-
tened if the roasted coffee is ground. Loss of strength is retarded if
roasted and ground coffee is kept in tightly closed containers. When
practicable, coffee should be ground just before using in order to get
the maximum strength from it. When roasted and ground coffee is
purchased by the mess it should be purchased in amounts that can be
used in 2 to 3 days. When making coffee, grounds once used should
be discarded. A good cup of coffee cannot be made when fresh coffee
is added to grounds already used. Coffee should never be boiled and
the coffee utensils should be cleaned immediately after use.

h. Tea . g ^There are three general classes of tea: green (unfer-
mented), black (fermented), and oolong (semifermented). Black
tea is usually furnished for Army messes and is an excellent bever-
age if properly prepared. Pour freshly boiling water on the required
amount of leaves in an earthen pot. Allow it to brew for 3 to 5
minutes, then remove the tea leaves and serve. Iced tea should be
made in the same manner, except doubly strong and poured over
cracked ice. The ice will melt and dilute the tea to its regular
strength. If the hot tea is permitted to cool before the ice iff added
it will have a cloudy appearance. Tea will absorb moisture and
odors, and the volatile oil will evaporate. Store tea in tightly
covered cans and in a cool place.

c. Cocoa . g Cocoa is the ground cacao bean from which part of
the fat has been extracted. “Breakfast Cocoa” must contain not
less than 22 percent cacao fat and therefore is a more nutritious
beverage than the product “Cocoa.” Cocoa is an excellent medium
by which to introduce milk into the diet. Cocoa is rich in starch,
therefore cocoa boiled for 5 minutes has a much better flavor than that
which is made by simply adding it to scalded milk.

