Beverages

« * * * 4&gt; * . *

a. Coffee . g (1) Rules for making.  ^In brewing coffee * * * be
strictly observed :

{a) Use fresh roasted and ground coffee which has been
kept in a container as airtight as possible, hindering the loss
of flavor and strength. Boasted and/or roasted and ground
coffee may be considered as a perishable commodity and
should be handled as such.

(б) Carefully measure quantities of both water and coffee.

« ♦ ♦ ♦ * «


Digitized by


(e) Never make more than enough coffee for one meal. g ^Warmed-
over and left-over coffee is bitter and has lost its aroma. However,
any left-over coffee need not be wasted; it can be served as iced
coffee at a subsequent meal.

(f) Use ground coffee only once . g Coffee grounds from which coffee

has been made should always be thrown away. Never use them the

second time. Coffee made from them is sure to have a bitter and

unpleasant flavor. This is true even if fresh roasted coffee and old

grounds are mixed. To mix fresh coffee and old grounds is a waste,

not a paving. i „ . . , ,

Original from

^ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


I saving. i

Coogle



puDiic uomain, uoogie-aigiiiizea / m:i:p://www.natrm:rusu.org/access_use^pa-googie


THE ARMY COOK


TM. 10-405
c 3


(g) Scour cof ee pot. g Unless thoroughly scoured and rinsed daily,
some of the spent grounds and oils of the coffee will stick in the corners
of the pot and impart a disagreeable taste to subseqjient brews. Do
not use this utensil for any other purpose.

(Ji) If hags are used, they should not he dried, neither should they
he washed in hot water. g ^Hot water cooks in the coffee stains through-
out the bag and, in subsequent brews, imparts a bitter and off flavor
to the coffee. After the bag is rinsed in cold water, submerge it in
cool or cold water until time to use it again.

(2) Coffee for cooks, gucard, and small detail , g ^It is the * * *
the mess table. Every mess should use a small utensil for the pur-
pose of providing good hot coffee for the kitchen detail, members of
the guard, etc., who desire coffee earlier or later than the regular
serving time for the organization. In making small quantities, use a
tablespoonful of ground coffee to each cup of water and add 1 table-
spoonful for the pot.

(3) Proper quantities (superseded). g Seven and one-half gallons
of coffee are sufficient for 100 men fqr one meal. This requires 7V^
gallons of water and 3 pounds of fresh roasted and ground coffee.
This proportion of' fresh roasted and ground coffee and water should
be used, regardless of the method of preparation.

(4) Methods of brewing. g (a) (Superseded.) Kettle method . 
Bring freshly drawn cold water to a boil. Place roasted and ground
coffee in 50-pound muslin coffee bag, sugar or flour bag, or other
similai' b.ag in the ratio of 1 pound of coffee to 2^ gallons water, leaving
sufficient room in the bag to permit free circulation of water through
the bag as well as expansion of coffee. Then tie the bag with cord
sufficiently long to. be fastened to handle of container or elsewhere to
assist in its final removal from the brew. Not more than 15 pounds
of ground coffee should be placed in one bag, as more would interfere
with the expansion of the coffee. For example, if 100 gallons of coffee
are required, place the necessary 40 pounds of ground coffee in three
separate bags. This will expedite the extraction and facilitate the
removal of the water-soaked bags of spent grounds, after completion
of the brew. Place the bag containing the coffee in the boiling water,
immediately moving container to back of the stove in order to reduce
temperature of water. Never boil coffee. Submerge bag containing
coffee with stick or paddle. Push bag up and down in water forcing
water to pass through the grounds. Lift bag out of brew in 12 to
15 minutes, permitting surplus water to drain into kettle and remove
entirely. Serve coffee at once. Watch temperature of coffee. Be sure


to keep it hot without permitting it to boil. The bag containing the
grounc^^hould immediately be emptied, washed thoroughly in cold

ized by GOOSIC 3 UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORML



in-i‘^n nii npi rAAAAAA//:rlni i / n?i7niFiin-;::)iFinnn 'iiiPiiinn ~&gt;iinnj


TM 10-405

C 3


THE ARMY COOK


water, and kept submerged in a pan of cold water until it is to be
used again. Do not wash it with soap and never permit if to dry.
Keeping the bag wet keeps it sweet. Use a fresh bag each time you

receive a new batch of coffee, which should be at least once a week.

« * « « * « *

(o) Wintered, or drip coffee . g This is made ♦ ♦ ♦ the ground
coffee. This type of utensil is sold under various trade names as
“Tricolator,” “Filtrator,” etc. Place the filter paper in the bottom of
the center compartment, add the ground coffee and cover with the
perforated metal cover which is usually provided ; then pour in boil-
ing water. When all the ♦ * ♦ coffee to boil.

(d) (Added.) Um method.

