Beverages_g_The_beverages_most_used_in_Army_messes_are
coffee, tea, cocoa, and lemonade. Fruit punches may be served occa-
sionally in hot weather if the cost is moderate.

a. Coffee. g (1) Rules for making.  ^In brewing coffee any
method, the following rules should be strictly observed:

(а) Keep supply of roasted coffee in airtight containers. g ^Expos-
ure to air causes roasted coffee to lose rapidly some of its flavor and
strength.

(б) Use ground coffee only once. g Coffee grounds from which coffee
has been made should always be thrown away. Never use them the
second time. Coffee made from them is sure to have a bitter and
unpleasant flavor. This is true even if fresh roasted coffee and old
grounds are mixed. To mix fresh coffee and old grounds is a waste,
not a saving.

(c) Use fresh hoHing water. g ^The water must be boiling to extract
all the desirable flavors from the coffee. It must be fresh. Water
which has boiled for a long time has a flat taste which will appear in
the coffee.

(«?) Regulate preparation of coffee so that it will he ready not more
than 10 minutes before serving time . g Once prepared, coffee loses its
flavor rapidly and if held more than 30 minutes becomes bitter.

(e) Never make more than enough coffee for one meal. g ^Warmed-
over coffee is bitter and has lost aroma.

{f) Scour coffeepot . g ^Unless thoroughly scoured daily, some of the
spent grounds and oils of the coffee will stick in the comers of the
pot and impart a bitter taste to subsequent brews.


Digitized by Google


100


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
65


( ff) If filter hags are med^ they should not he dried, neither should
they he washed in hot water. g Hot water cooks in the coffee stains
throughout the filter bag and, in subsequent brews, imparts a bitter
and. off flavor to the coffee. After the bag is rinsed in cold water,
submerge it in cool or cold water until time to use it again.

(2) Coffee for cooks. g ^It is the practice of some cooks to make
the coffee for breakfast as soon as the fire is started in the morning in
order to have coffee for themselves. This is bad practice. It means
that stale and bitter coffee is served at the mess table. Every mess
should have a small coffeepot, percolator, or tricolator for the purpose
of providing good hot coffee for the kitchen detail, members of the
guard, etc,, who desire coffee earlier or later than the regular serving
time for the organization. In making small quantities, use a level
tablespoonful of ground coffee to each cup of water and add 1 level
tablespoonful for the pot.

(3) Proper quantities. g One pint of coffee per man is ample for
one meal. This is 12i/^ gallons for 100 men or gallons for 20 men.
For each 20 men use 1 pound of roasted and ground coffee and 2^ gal-
lons of water. Therefore, to find the number of pounds of roasted
and ground coffee, divide the number of men to be served by 20. For
example, if 80 men are to be served, 4 pounds of coffee are required.
To find the number of gallons of water, multiply the number of
pounds of ground coffee by 2^. Thus, for 80 men, 4 pounds of
ground coffee and 10 gallons of water are required. These propor-
tions of ground coffee and water should be used regardless of the
method of preparation g whether boiled, or made in percolators,
tricolator, etc.

(4) Methods of brewing. g (a) Boiled coffee.  Heat fresh water in
a separate container until it has just reached the boiling point. Place
the ground coffee in a cloth sack ; tie the top. Ground coffee expands
in water, therefore leave plenty of room in the sack for this expansion.
Place the sack of ground coffee in the coffeepot or boiler and pour the
water over it ; or, the sack of coffee may be suspended or dropped into
the water. Keep hot on the back of the stove ; do not permit boiling.
The value of a cloth sack is that the grounds can be removed easily as
soon as the coffee is brewed. Sometimes a sack may not be available.
In this case the ground coffee is placed in the bottom of the pot or
boiler and the boiling water poured over it ; at the end of 10 minutes
heating over a slow fire, settle the coffee by the addition of a small
quantity of cold water.

(&amp;) Percolated coffee. g ^Use either cold or hot water. The use of
hot water reduces the length of time required to complete the brew.


Digitized by


Google


101


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
65


THE ARMY COOK


For quantities in excess of 20 cups the coffee will be ready to serve in
10 minutes after it starts coming over the top of the tube. For
smaller quantities 8 minutes is sufficient.

{c) Filtered or drip cofee . g This is made in a utensil having three
compartments, the upper for water, the center for ground coffee, and
the lower for the brewed beverage. Filter papers are usually pro-
vided to be placed on the bottom of the center compartment before
putting in the ground coffee. This type of utensil is sold under vari-
ous trade names as “Tricolator,” “Filtrator,” etc. For best results
the coffee must be finely ground. Place the filter paper in the bottom
of the center compartment, add the ground coffee and cover with the
perforated metal cover which is usually provided; then pour in boil-
ing or fresh water. When all the water has filtered through the
ground coffee and into the lower compartment, the beverage is ready
to serve. Before serving, stir the beverage to equalize strength
throughout. Some arrangement must be made to keep the lower
compartment hot but not boiling. If of earthenware or glassware,
keep it in a pan of hot water until just before serving. If of alumi-
num or other metal it should be placed on the back of the stove. Do
not permit the brewed coffee to boil.

h. Tea. g (1) Tea should be served hot occasionally in lieu of coffee.
In the summer months it should be served often as an iced beverage,
especially at the noon meal.

(2) Tea should be made in glass or earthenware utensils, if avail-
able, as metal utensils give an off flavor and tend to blacken the tea.

(3) One to three ounces of tea to 1 gallon of water should be used in
making tea, depending on the quality of the tea and the strength of
the beverage desired. Two ounces of tea leaves to 1 gallon of water
should make a beverage to suit the average person.

(4) Bring the required quantity of water to a boil. Place the dry
tea in a clean cotton bag, tie the top, and drop the bag into the boiling
water. Tea expands in water, therefore, leave plenty of room in the
bag for expansion. Allow the bag of tea to remain in the water for
6 or 7 minutes, then remove it. If tea leaves are allowed to remain
in the water longer than 7 minutes the tea becomes stronger and bitter.
Agitate the bag of tea three or four times during the period it is in
the water. Stir the tea just before serving, to equalize strength
throughout. If not stirred the tea on the bottom of the container
will be stronger than that on top. Unlike coffee, tea may be made sev-
eral hours before serving, if kept in earthenware or glass containers,
as it does not lose its flavor and aroma. If lemons are available, they
may be sliced and served with the tea in lieu of milk, for those
desiring this.


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


102



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
65-68


(5) Tea to be used as an iced drink should be made in concentrated
form. Use the total required quantity of tea leaves, and one-fifth the
I'equired amount of water. Prepare the same as hot tea, but a suffi-
cient time in advance to permit cooling. Just before serving, add the
remainder of the water, either cold water or chipped ice or a com-
bination of the two, and stir vigorously in order to equalize strength
throughout. Added lemon materially improves the fiavor.

c. Cocoa. g (1) Cocoa makes a good beverage, especially for the
evening meal. Five ounces of cocoa to 1 gallon of liquid makes a
beverage of average strength. The best results are obtained when the
liquid used consists of 75 percent milk and 25 percent water. The
quantity of milk may be reduced, with corresponding increase in the
quantity of water when it becomes necessary to reduce cost. Cocoa
made with water alone lacks palatability and body, and is generally
unsatisfactory.

(2) Some cooks make cocoa by placing the ground cocoa in a pot,
adding hot water, bringing to a boil, then adding sugar and milk. A
better method is first to make a thick paste with the ground cocoa,
sugar, and a little hot water. This method prevents lumpiness.

(3) Some cooks prefer to leave out the sugar when making cocoa
so that the men may add it at the table according to individual taste.
This is a matter of mess management.


Section V


EATIONS

Paragraph

Definition 66

To whom issued g _ 67

Army 68

Use of rations 69


