Boneless_smoked_ham_for_baking_g_The_following_method_of_re
moving the bones from the smoked ham is recommended for Army
use:


Digitized by Google


55


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

27 THE ARMY COOK

(1) Use the knife to lift the skin from the outside of the ham,
provided it is a regular ham. If it is a skinned ham, remove the
collar and the skin that covers the shank.

(2) Remove the aitchbone by unjointing it from the leg bone and
cutting it free from the meat.

(3) The shank may be removed at the stifle joint, provided it can
be used to advantage in the preparation of some other dish; other-
wise it may be left attached to the ham. In (4) to (6) below it is
assumed that the shank is on the ham.

(4) Start at the small end of the shank and split open the top half
(face) of the ham by running the knife closely along the shank bone,
then the leg bone. Remove these bones as well as the small kneecap
bone.

(5) The shank meat is so much thinner than the balance of the
ham that it is advisable to cut off this meat and put it in the pocket
left by the removal of the aitchbone.

(6) Roll and tie the boneless ham before baking.

c. Slicing smoked ham. g Slicing an unboned smoked ham not
only involves a lot of work (unless the kitchen is equipped with an
electric meat cutter) but it is not the most advantageous way to cut
the ham into attractive servings. The method followed by most first-
class hotels and restaurants is a more acceptable one.

(1) Take off the skin.

(2) Remove the aitchbone.

(3) Cut boneless slices from the meat that is exposed by removing
the aitchbone. The slices should be made diagonally across the end
of the ham until the leg bone is reached.

(4) Stand the ham on the cut surface of the butt end, with the
cushion side on the right. Start at the end of the shank and cut
down along the shank and leg bones until the block is reached. The
cushion side of the ham can now be sliced into attractive horseshoe-
shaped slices.

(5) Run the knife through the stifle joint to separate the shank
from the knuckle side of the ham.

(6) Cut closely around the leg bone so that this bone may be
lifted from the meat. Also take out the small kneecap bone.

(7) Turn the knuckle piece onto cut surface. Start at the large
end and cut the entire piece into boneless slices.

d. Boneless smoked picnic for baking . g ^The smoked picnic prob-
ably will be used largely for seasoning and baking. In order to get
the greatest number of attractive servings from this cut of meat, the
bones and skin should be removed before cooking.


Digitized by Google


56


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TK 10-405
27-29


(1) Remove the skin.

(2) With fat side down, split open the picnic, following over the
top of the shank bones and the arm bone as nearly as possible. Con-
tinue cutting until the meat has been freed from the bones and the
bones can be removed from the meat.

(3) Fold the boneless meat together and tie with cord.

