Butter_g_Butter_containing_not_less_than__percent_butterfat
has a high calorific value. Aside from its high calorific value it is
one of the chief sources of vitamin A in the ordinary diet. Butter
absorbs fiavors and odors very readily and should not be stored with
other foods unless well protected against the absorption of food
flavors. It should be handled the same as fresh milk and kept in
the refrigerator until time of serving.

c. Cheese . g There are two types of cheese on the market, the natural
cheese and the processed or pasteurized cheese. The natural cheese
is made from either raw or pasteurized milk which has been inocu-
lated with a specific bacteria and seasoned to give it its characteristic
flavor. Processed cheese is the natural cheese pasteurized and sold
as “Processed Cheddar,” “Processed Swiss,” etc. The consumption
of the two types is about equal. The processed cheese has a milder
flavor than the natural cheese. It is usually packed in brick shapes
of various weights and wrapped with specially treated paper. Both
types of cheese have the same nutritive value. Cheese is high in


Digitized by


Google


71


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

35-36


THE ARMY COOK


proteins and fat and should be served often in the mess as a sub-
stitute for meat. One or two varieties should always be included
in cold suppers on Sundays or holidays. Processed cheese is usually
higher priced than the natural cheese. However, there is no waste
of rind to processed cheese and it is much easier to cut into econom-
ical servings. Considering these facts it may be as cheap to serve
processed cheese as natural cheese.

d. Ice cream, ices, and sherbets . g Ice cream is a very satisfactory
dessert, either summer or winter. Ices should not be confused with
ice cream as they are usually made from water, fruit juices, and sugar.
Sherbets are similar to ices but contain some egg white. Both ices
and sherbets make a satisfactory dessert after a heavy meal, especially
on a hot summer’s day. Ice cream can be purchased from commercial
concerns at reasonable prices and conveniently wrapped for individ-
ual servings, usually six or seven servings to the quart. If the equip-
ment is available, ice cream, ices, and sherbets can be made in the mess
at a considerable saving.

