Canned_foods_g_a_General__Canned_foods_are_fresh_foods
preserved by heating them in hermetically sealed containers. Canned
foods are subjected to thorough heat treatments, which destroy the
bacteria and other organisms that may cause spoilage at ordinary tem-
peratures. There is a common impression that consumers of canned
food are liable to ptomaine poisoning. Sterilized food in airtight
containers cannot, under any circumstances, be dangerous.

h. Nutritive value. g Most of the nutritive value of the food is pre-
served with the product. In many cases the nutritive value will be
higher than in the overcooked fresh vegetables. Much of the nutri-
tive value of the food is dissolved in the liquid surrounding the prod-
uct. For this reason the juices should be served with the food or
used for sauces, soups, stock, or gravy. Canned sea foods are rich
in iodine and vitamins A and D.

c. Preparation of canned foods . g Canned fruits and vegetables, as
well as other kinds of canned food, have been thoroughly cooked in
the canning process and require no cooking in the mess. If it is de-
sired to serve canned foods hot, it is only necessary to heat them for a
few minutes before serving. Canned foods should never be boiled or
heated longer than necessary. Boiling or prolonged heating tends to
destroy many of the vitamins. Most of the canned meat products on
the market can be served without cooking. However, some of the pork
products are only partially cooked and require additional cooking or
roasting before being served.

d. Inspection of canned foods. g The containers of all canned goods
should be inspected when issued to the mess. Swells (cans with bulged
ends), leakers (containers from which juice has escaped), and badly
rusted cans should be rejected. Slight rusting, dented, or soiled labels
do not affect the quality of the food and are no cause for rejection.

e. Storage of canned foods. g ^The keeping quality of canned food
depends, to a large extent, upon the nature of the product. The
acid of certain fruits and vegetables reacts with the metal of the can.


Digitized by


Google


73


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
37-38


THE ARMY COOK


causing pinholes. 'Many highly colored products fade and others
disintegrate with time. The following points should be considered
whene storing canned goods :

(1) Dry storage with good ventilation.

(2) Cool storage. The ideal would be approximately 50° F.

(3) Avoid freezing temperatures. Frozen canned food is seldom
ruined if the cans are not injured. However, there is some break-
down of the cell tissue and the product will not have as good an
appearance as before freezing. If canned goods should freeze, do not
defrost until you are ready to use them. Frozen canned foods should
be thawed slowly.

(4) Canned fruits and vegetables of the acid type (cherries, ber-
ries, pineapples, plums, sauerkraut, etc.) spoil rather rapidly in warm
temperatures and should not be kept on hand in the mess for more
than 3 months. Canned fi’uits and vegetables of the nonacid type
(apricots, peaches, pears, beans, corn, peas, pumpkin, etc.) keep well
and may be stored under proper conditions for 6 months to 1 year.
Canned meats are good keepers and may be stored for 1 year. Some
canned pork products which have not been thoroughly cooked must
be stored under refrigeration. Canned sea foods do not keep as well
as canned meats and should receive frequent inspection. Canned milk
should not be stored over 6 months and the cases should be turned
frequently to prevent separation' of the butterfat from the milk.

