Care_of_ranges_and_cooking_utensils_g_a_BeapomihUity_of
cook . g ^It is part of the duty of cooking to give the proper care to
ranges, cooking utensils, and kitchen equipment. To do the best
cooking it is essential that this equipment be kept in good condition.
Careful observation of the following instructions will insure kitchen
equipment being in good condition at all times.

h. Ranges, g (1) Army range No. 6 .  The Army range No. 5 is the
type installed in many company kitchens in permanent barracks.

(a) Frequent firing should be made with small amounts of coal
instead of using large amounts with longer intervals between firings.
This will provide an even heat and will result in a smaller con-
sumption of fuel.

(5) Ashes under the firebox should be cleaned out frequently, sev-
eral times a day if necessary. Grate bars will bum out quickly, that
is, become warped and twisted, if ashes under the firebox are allowed
to pile high enough to touch the grate bars.

(c) The oven should be swept out and the top and outer surfaces
of the range and stovepipe rubbed with greasy cloth daily. A greasy
cloth applied daily over the entire range keeps it in better condition
than stove polish applied once a week.

{d) Not less than once each week the range should be thoroughly
cleaned out. To do this remove the top and sweep the top of the
oven, protecting the casing plates. Remove the soot with a scraper
through the flue doors. The mantel should be wiped often with a
damp cloth and, when necessary, washed with soap and water. This
prevents dishes picking up dirt and grease and thus soiling the tables.

(e) An intensely hot fire should never be maintained. Such a
fire is not necessary for good cooking ; on the contrary, it often causes
poor cooking, as foods being cooked on top of the range may become
scorched and those in the oven scorched or overcooked. An intensely
hot fire tends to damage hot water piping and warp the top sections
of the range.

(2) Army field range . g See paragraph 77.


Digitized by Google


109


Original from

UNIVERSITY DF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

74


THE ARMY COOK


(3) Electric. g The chief point to consider in using electric ranges
is to avoid damage to the heating elements through rough handling
and spilling of food on the range or heating elements. Any food
spilled should be cleaned off immediately.

(4) Gas. g If foods are spilled on the burners of gas ranges, the
holes will close up, thus cutting oflf heat. The burners should be
kept clean. If the gas range does not appear to be heating well,
the matter should be reported for the attention of a plumber who
may be able to effect improvement by adjusting the air supply to
the burners.

c. Utensils. g (1) General.  Tinned utensils, such as boilers, dip-
pers, meat forks, ladles, skimmers, measures, basting spoons, etc.,
should be cleaned with soap and water, or scoured, if necessary, with
fine scouring soap or wood ashes each time after using. They should
then be scalded and air-dried (sunned if possible) and hung in a
dry place. When tinned utensils become rusted they are unsani-
tary and should be reported to the mess sergeant. Towels should
not be used to dry utensils or dishes if they can be air-dried. Usu-
ally the heat of scalding is sufficient to dry dishes but is not always
sufficient to dry metal utensils, especially such utensils as egg beaters.
If these utensils are placed on a clean stove mantel the heat will dry
them.

(2) Small utensils. g It should be remembered that unclean utensils,
knives, forks, spoons, egg beaters, etc., may impart an unpleasant
flavor to any dish in which they are used; also, that germs are in
the air everywhere, even in the cleanest kitchen. Therefore, every
utensil should be cleaned immediately after use by washing in warm
water and then rinsing in scalding water. This rinsing in scalding
water will kill germs. It is not necessary to clean (wash) the uten-
sils in scalding water; frequently this is bad practice, as scalding
tends to cook the food, especially eggs, on the utensils and makes it
more difficult to remove. Even though utensils have been cleaned
before being hung up or put away they should be rinsed or dipped in
scalding water before being used to kill germs or remove dust which
may be settled on them. Large utensils, as tinned boilers, should be
wiped before using.

(3) Bloch iron haJcepans. g (a) When received.  The black iron
roasting and baking pans supplied to Army messes should be washed
when first received in the mess, in warm soapy water to which a little
washing soda has been added. In the case of new and unused pans,
this is to remove the protective parafiin coating put on by the manu-
facturer.


110


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
74-75


(5) '"'‘Burning newly received pans. g It should be a routine
practice to “bum in” black iron pans when first received by the mess.
After being washed and dried, the pans should be thinly and evenly
coated with lard or lard substitute. Lard is better, but lard substi-
tute will do. Then the pans are placed in a medium oven (325° to
400° F. g 12 to 16 counts) for 1 hour. This burns in the coating of
lard and gives a smooth, glazed surface, closing up the tiny pores
in the metal and preventing rust. This process is often called “blu-
ing” or “rebluing.”

(c) Periodical rehhdng. g ^Daily use in the mess causes the bumed-in
coating on these pans to wear off, this being indicated by shiny, light-
colored areas. When this occurs the pans should be washed, dried,
and reblued by the method shown in (&amp;) above.

{d) Cleaning. g Black iron pans must be kept thoroughly clean
inside and out. If particles of cooked food or dirt are left on the
outside, they may be transferred to other pans when the pans are
nested. Particles of cooked food or dirt on the inside of a pan will
discolor and impart an unpleasant flavor to any food subsequently
cooked or baked in such a pan. Black iron pans should be scoured
only when necessary to remove dirt as scouring tends to remove the
bluing. Soaking will soften most dirt so that it can be removed by
washing in warm, soapy water. After washing, scald, air-dry (by
heat if possible), and hang separately (not nested).

