Cleanout_doors__g_First_scrape_ash_dust_and_soot_with_flue

scraper from the top side of the oven, and push it down the
space at the left side of the oven. Clean both right and
left sides of this space with a flue scraper. Scrape the
ash dust and soot thus collected out of the clean-out door
together with the soot collected on the bottom sides of the
oven.

(/) Stovepipe . g Clean soot from the horizontal stovepipes with a
broom or a mop, the head of which is covered with cloth or burlap.
Care must be taken not to disconnect stovepipe connections. Soot can
be partially cleaned from vertical stovepipes by tapping them lightly
with a broad, flat stick, taking care not to dent or disconnect them.
The outside of the chimney or stovepipe can be cleaned by frequent
dusting with a dry cloth. Occasionally it should be washed with soapy
water and polished with a dry cloth. To prevent rusting, the stove-
pipe should be polished as described in (&lt;f) above. In all cleaning,
care should be taken neither to disconnect stovepipe connections nor
to force pipes into elbows or connections in such a manner that the
draft suction is impaired or cut off.

{g) Mantel . g The back of the mantel, the mantel shelf, and the left
and right ends of the mantel have baked japan surfaces, and are
properly cleaned with soapy water. To polish, a dry cloth should be
used. Sharp abrasives or instruments that would scratch or crack the
finish should be avoided.

(A) Other parts . g The parts which are listed below are properly
and satisfactorily cleaned with G, I. or round-wire brushes: top,
bottom, and sides of bake oven ; top, bottom, and sides of warming
oven ; top, front, rear, and sides of range, excluding mantel ; and oven
rack. If spilled food or other residue has been burned in or carbonized
on these surfaces, it will be necessary to use a harder abrasive instru-
ment than the G. I. or round-wire brush. Flat steel brushes, emery
cloths, or sharpened hard-steel instruments such as cold chisels, or
sharpened steel spring leaves, will be found adequate for scraping sur-
faces. In general, no range can be considered thoroughly clean until
all dirt, food, and other residue are cleaned from the crevices and
spaces where various parts fit together ; also from screw eyes, and from
indentations and raised surfaces of name plates, reinforced edges,
hinge connections, and all other mechanical and ornamental features
of the range.


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



Digitized


TVL 10-405

THE. ARMY COOK C 2

(5) Regulating Army range No. 5. g ^There are four appliances on
the Army range No. 5 by which draft and temperature can be
regulated.

(а) Draft door register. g The draft door register regulates the
amount of air circulating up through the firebox into the range^
thereby controlling the degree of draft necessary to force the burning
of the fire. The register is a sliding door which can be closed, opened
partially, or fully opened to diminish or increase the air circulation
and the burning rate of the fire. If sufficient draft does not develop
when the register is fully opened, the draft door itself can be opened
outward to obtain the maximum degree of draft.

(6) Direct draft damper. g The direct draft damper controls the
direction of draft circulation within the range. When the* damper
is closed, it causes heat to circulate entirely around the oven, entering
the stovepipe through the flue opening just below the bottom of the
oven. This action heats the oven on the top, bottom, sides, and rear.
When the damper is open, the heat is drawn directly from the firebox ;
to the flue opening in the chimney just above the top of the oven where I
the damper is located. Since heat is drawn up to the flue opening,
it does not circulate around the oven and the oven is described as having
only top heat. The direct draft damper should be kept closed at all
times, except when the fire is being started. If for some reason only
top heat is required in the oven, or if the oven is not to be used, the
damper may be opened. To close, the direct draft damper control is
turned counterclockwise ; to open it, it is turned clockwise.

(c) Ventilator register. g The ventilator register reduces oven tem-
perature. If during baking or roasting, heat increases above the de-
sired temperature, it can be reduced by “cracking,” or partially opening,
the ventilator register.- Also, when the oven has greater top heat than
bottom, these temperatures can be made more equal by “cracking” the
register. Except for these purposes the ventilator register should
always be closed.

{d) Flue damper. g ^The flue damper is used when the fire is banked
to diminish the draft suction through the chimney and to decrease the
burning rate of the fire.

(б) Inspection.^ Army range No. 6. g The following is a check list
which may be used for inspection ©f Army range No. 6 :

(o) Ashpit. g See h (2) {a) and 6 (4) (a).

(&amp;) Fire glow in ashpit. g K red glow appearing in the ashpit indi-
cates that the grate is free from an excessive collection of ashes and
clinkers. If there is no red glow, it is an almost certain indication that

6

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




TM 10-405
G a


TECHNICAL MANTJAL


accumulated ashes and clinkers in the bottom of the firebox are pre-
venting an effective draft. The fire should be stoked.

(c) Range top panels and covers. g The condition of panels which
do not fit properly on the range top, and covers which do not fit flush
in the panels, is often caused by the warping of panels and covers due
to overly long exposure to excessive heat. The panels should be
changed without delay, and the manner of firing the range should be
checked. See that the fire level is maintained no higher than 2 or 3
inches below the top of the oven. Also check under the range panels
to see whether the backbone which supports the panels has not become
disconnected from the panel frames and oven top.

{d) Accumulation of soot and ash dust. g Check the bottom of the
range panels and covers, the top and bottom sides of the oven, and the
clean-out compartment for accumulation. Soot and ash dust must be
cleaned from all parts of the range daily for continued efficient and
uniform performance.

(e) Exterior range surfaces. g The exterior range surfaces, must be
‘ clean and free from spilled coal, ashes, dirt, and food residue. This
includes screw eyes, cracks, and indented surfaces.

(/) Interior oven and warrrdng sv/rfaces. g Same as (e) above.

{g) Grate locking key. g Check grate locking key to see that it is
in place. If the key is missing, the grate may shift or turn when the
fire is stoked, causing the fire coals to fall to the ashpan.

(7) “T’rowJZe” check Ust . g (a) Fire not hwrning properly.  ^If the
fire is not burning properly, check the grate to see that it is not in-
verted. If the grate is inverted, ashes will not fall into the ashpan
and air can enter over the top of the fire instead of up through the
grate, preventing the free burning of the fire. Warped range covers
which permit air to enter above the fire also retard its free burning.
Stovepipe and chimney connections which have become telescoped
into the elbow or angle connections, thereby reducing the draft space,
will also handicap the free burning of the fire.

(6) No bottom heat in oven. g ^If the oven shows evidence of having
insufficient bottom heat, check to see that the range has been properly
cleaned of soot and ash dust, especially on the bottom side of the oven.
See that the direct draft damper, the ventilator register, and the clean-
out door are closed.

(&lt;?) Insufficient oven heat. g If the entire oven does not heat suffi-
ciently, check as in (b) above. Also check the oven door to see that
it fits flush with the front sheet.

(d) I nsufficient hot water. g ^If there is not sufficient hot water, check
as in (a) above; check fire level; check to see that there is no accu-


Digitized by Google


6


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



puDiic uomain, uoogie-aigiiiizea / m:i:p://www.natniurust.org/access_use^pa-googie


THE; ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
C 2


mulation of ashes against the water back; and check to see that no
hot water faucets are leaking in the sink.

(e) Oven overheated . g If the oven becomes overheated, it can be
corrected by opening slightly the ventilator register. Closing or par-
tially closing the draft door register will also help to reduce oven
heat.

(/) Heating surface of range too hot. g If the heating surface of the
range is too hot, close the draft door register. Check to see that the
ashpan fits flush with the front sheet, and that it does not allow air to
enter through the ash pit.

c. Other ranges. g (1) Army field range.  See paragraph 77.

(2) Electric. g The chief point to consider in using electric ranges
is to avoid damage to the heating elements through rough handling
and spilling of food on the range or heating elements. Any food
spilled should be cleaned off immediately.

(3) Gas. g If foods are spilled on the burners of gas ranges, the
holes will close up, thus cutting off heat. The burners should be kept
clean. If the gas range does not appear to be heating well, the matter
should be reported for the attention of a plumber who may be able to
effect improvement by adjusting the air supply to the burners.

d. Utensils.

*******

(A. G. 300.7 (6-ia-48),] (C2, 18 June 1948.)

By order of the Secretary of War :

G. C. MARSHALL,

Ghief of Staff.

Official :

J. A. ULIO,

Major General,

The Adjutant General.


7

U. %. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: IRES

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
‘ *C 3


TECHNICAL MANUAL


THE ARMY COOI^ \ 


&gt;( ^


Changes] LJ17

No. 3 j WA8HiN&lt;fc^25,'©yc., 2 J^bVa&amp;iy 19^

TM 10-406, 24 April 1942, is changed ^






