Coffee_hot

lYz gallons water, cold 3 pounds coffee, roasted and ground

• ♦ • • • * «

Coffee_hot


12'/^ gallons water, cold 5 pounds coffee, roasted and ground

Bring the water to a boil. Move container to back of stove in
order to reduce temperature of water slightly under the boiling
point. Place roasted and ground coffee in sugar interliner bag, or
other similar bag, and tie same with cord, leaving sufficient room in
the bag to permit expansion of the coffee. Place the bag containing
the coffee in water, when water is slightly under boiling point, and
allow to simmer, not boil, for 10 to 12 minutes. Stir the bag occa-
sionally during the simmering period. Remove the bag. Serve at
once.


Digitized by


Google


235


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

313-315


THE ARMY COOK


Observe the following rules to insure good coffee :

a. Keep roasted and ground coffee in a container as airtight as
possible.

h. Carefully measure quantities of both water and coffee.

c. When grounds are removed from coffee, throw them away. Do
not use these grounds to make additional quantities of coffee, and do
not use part spent grounds and part unused grounds for subsequent
brews. Always use fresh (unused) ground coffee.

d. Be sure to bring water to a boil, but do not add coffee to water
until the water has cooled slightly below the boiling point.

e. Serve the coffee as soon as possible after completion of brew.
The brew should not be completed more than 16 minutes prior to time
of serving.

f. Scour the coffee boiler daily.

g. After removing grounds from muslin bag or sack, the sack
should be washed in lukewarm, not hot, water, thoroughly rinsed in
cold water, and then permitted to remain submerged in a pan of cold
water until ready to use again.

3l4. Lemonade

13 gallons ice water 100 lemons

7 pounds sugar 10 pounds Ice

Squeeze the juice from the lemons with a lemon squeezer and add
it to the water. Sweeten to taste with sugar and stir thoroughly
before serving. Serve cold.

