Cooking_general_g_a_When_cooking_was_first_discovered_the
primary object was to make food more appetizing than when in the
raw state. Proper cooking, in addition to making food more appetiz-
ing and easier to chew, makes some foods more digestible, and also


Digitized by Google


80


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

51-52


destroys any disease germs or parasites which may be present in the
food. It is now known that cooking must take into consideration the
possibilities of the loss of nutritive value, particularly the vitamins
and minerals, if the soldier is to be well fed.

h. Skillful cooking is an art, acquired by experience and training.
The experienced and skillful cook does more than apply heat to food g
he knows how to combine and blend foods so that appetizing flavors
are developed ; how to season for the same result ; and how to get the
most out of the food supplies on hand.

c. Although it requires experience and training to become an expert
cook, anyone, after having learned the fundamentals of cooking, can
cook a satisfactory and appetizing meal by following the recipes given
in chapter 2. These fundamentals of cooking are simple but all-
important. Two of them which should be carefully observed are use
of the proper temperatures and proper cooking times for different
foods. All foods cannot be cooked at the same temperature and for
the same length of time. Meats require long cooking at moderate
temperatures ; green vegetables should be given a short cooking; pastry
is baked for a. short time at comparatively high temperature. From
the foregoing it will be seen how important it is to learn the funda-
mentals of cooking before starting to cook.

d. The term “cooking” is often used to mean the preparation of food
for cooking as well as the actual cooking. This preparation may be
merely peeling, as in the case of onions, potatoes, etc., or it may include
cutting, slicing, grinding, chopping, etc. While preparation changes
the form of food, the actual cooking may not only change the form
but may also change the flavor or chemical composition, thus rendering
the food more appetizing and digestible. An example of this is the
cooking of potatoes and other starchy foods. Starch, when raw, is
difficult to digest; when changed by cooking it is easy to digest. On
the other hand, improper cooking decreases palatability and results
in waste, loss of nutritive value, and may mean an inadequately fed
soldier.

