Cooking_in_fat_g_a_General___Cooking_in_fat_is_done_either
in shallow fat (just sufficient to form a film between the food and
the hot pan) or in deep fat (sufficient melted hot fat to cover the
food). Cooking in shallow fat is called sauteing by some chefs, and
some cookbooks call it pan frying; however, the term commonly used
in the United States is simply frying and foods so cooked are called
fried. Foods cooked in deep fat also are called fried except that
potatoes so cooked are called french fried. In this manual, when
it is desired to indicate that a food should be cooked in shallow
fat it will be called fried (example g potatoes, fried), and when it
is desired to indicate that a food should be cooked in deep fat, this
manual will use the expression, “fry in deep fat.”

h. Advantages . g Cooking in fat has the following advantages:

(1) It is a quick method of cooking.

(2) It gives a distinctive and pleasing flavor.

(3) Part of the fat is absorbed by the food, thus increasing nutritive
value.

c. Fried foods not to he served too often . g Fried foods should not
be served too often as men quickly tire of them; they are unhealth-
ful as a steady diet because of too much fat in the food and also
because fat is digested less easily than other foods.

d. Frying in deep fat compared 'with frying in shallow fat. g (1)
Frying in deep fat has advantages over frying in shallow fat. One
is that the flavor is better; another, that less time is required. The
chief advantage is that the food is entirely surrounded by hot fat
and therefore is cooked so quickly that there is not time for fat
absorption.

(2) In shallow fat the food is not entirely surrounded by hot fat


Digitized by


Google


85


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

54


THE ARMY COOK


and is not cooked as quickly as in deep fat. Therefore, foods fried
in shallow fat usually absorb more fat than if fried in deep fat.

(3) In deep fat the food does not come into contact with the pan.
In shallow fat the food is in contact with the hot pan and it fre-
quently becomes necessary to move the pan off the fire or reduce the
temperature to prevent scorching. Therefore, frying in shallow fat
should be done at a lower temperature than in deep fat. On ac-
count of this lower temperature it requires longer for the formation
of a crust on the outside of the food and longer to cook. Only
sufficient fat should be used to prevent burning in order to avoid
grease-soaked food.

e. Frying in deep fat, procedure. g (1) Proper temperature of
fat . g The fat must be hot so that the food is cooked quickly and a
crust is quickly formed on the outside. However, the fat must not
be heated until it smokes. Too hot a fat will scorch the outside of
the food and leave the center raw. Too low a temperature will
grease-soak the food being prepared. An experienced cook easily
recognizes this temperature. A good practical test is to drop into
the hot fat an inch cube of bread from the soft part of the loaf.
The bread will be golden brown in 60 seconds at the proper tempera-
ture for frying. If the cook is not certain that the fat has been
heated to the proper temperature, he should test it with a thermom-
eter. Lard substitute and vegetable shortening begin to smoke at
about 450° F. Pure lard begins to smoke at about 380° F. Frying
temperature should be between 350° and 375° F. The larger pieces
of food should be fried at the lower temperature to completely cook
the food.

(2) Fm/ing moist foods . g Care should be used in deep-fat frying
of foods which have a moist surface as the moisture may form steam
when it comes into contact with the hot fat, and this steam may
cause the fat to boil over and catch fire, or to pop out on the cook.
For example, potatoes prepared for french frying, which have been
immersed in water, should be drained before being put into hot fat.

(3) Avoid cooling fat . g ^Unless the fat is kept hot, it will not cook
the food quickly and will not quickly form a crust on the outside.
This will allow the fat to soak into the food. A common error is to
introduce too much food at one time (as in the frying of doughnuts),
thus cooling the fat. Another common error is to cool the fat by
introduction of foods which are cold on account of having been
frozen or kept in a refrigerator. Such foods should be kept in a
warm room sufficiently long to lose the chill before being fried.

(4) Drain foods after frying . g Foods fried in deep fat should be

86


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

54-55


drained after frying. This may be done in a colander, wire basket,
sieve, or by laying on paper. Ordinarly brown wrapping paper
will do.

(5) Fai clarifying . g The question often arises whether fat which
has been used for deep frying can be used again. To a great extent
this depends on whether the fat has been heated to the smoking
point, and whether any foods have been allowed to scorch or bum
in it. In either case the fat will impart a disagreeable odor and
taste to foods subsequently fried in it. It should be clarified. One
method of clarifying used fat is to strain it by pouring the warm
melted fat through a cloth. Two thicknesses of clean fiour sack
will suffice. This removes b.urned particles of food, but may not
entirely remove the disagreeable odor and taste. Additional clari-
fication may be accomplished by allowing the fat to cool until it
hardens; then melt it, add a few raw potatoes cut into quarter-inch
slices, and heat gradually. When the potatoes are well browned and
no bubbles appear on the surface, the fat should be strained. The
potatoes absorb the odors and most of the sediment and should be
discarded as they will be grease-soaked.

