Cooking_stoves_ranges_and_appliances_directions_for
use. g a. Cooks should be thoroughly familiar with their ranges,
steam kettles, and other cooking appliances; know how to operate
them economically; know which parts thereof produce the greatest
heat and under what conditions these appliances may be most effi-
ciently operated. For example, the heat surface of the Army range


No. 5 may be best used as follows :



0 0

0

0

5 4

3

1

0 0

0

0

5a 4a

,3a

2

The No. 1 eye gives off the greatest amount of heat; the No. 2 next.
Nos. 3, 3a, 4, and 4a next; and Nos. 5 and 5a the least. A food to be

boiled should be placed on the No.

1

eye. Should it be desired to

have the food simmer, the utensil must be removed to eye No. 5 or


No. 5a. Tough meat which requires a long, slow process of cooking
may be simmered until tender without fear of burning if placed on
the No. 5 or No. 5a eye. For a moderate heat Nos. 3, 3a, 4, and 4a eyes
can be used to advantage. Stewing requires a gentle heat applied for
a long time.

&amp;. Steam cookers, where available, provide an exceptionally rapid
means of cooking fresh vegetables in quantities. These cookers are
economical of fuel and labor. They produce food of excellent quality,
with a natural tasty flavor, and with very small loss of the nourish-
ing properties contained therein, and, in addition, require little or
no attention and do not allow foods to scorch or bum. Pressure
steam cookers should have an automatic steam cut-off which is con-
trolled by the opening and shutting of the doors, to avoid accidental


Digitized by Google


108


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

73-74


scalding of personnel. In using electric ranges or electrical appli-
ances of any kind for cooking, care must be taken to prevent damaging
the heating elements by rough handling or spilled foods. Any food
spilled on this equipment, particularly on the heating elements, should
be cleaned up immediately. Mixing machines, chopping and slicing
machines, grinders, etc., should be well cleaned immediately after
using. AU cutting edges should be kept sharp, and all machinery
well oiled and free from rust, dirt, and grease.

