Dairy_prducts_g_a_Milk___Fresh_milk_and_hutter
milk . g Fresh whole milk should be served in the mess daily. Great
care is exercised to insure that only wholesome milk is delivered to
the mess. This same care must be exercised by the mess personnel
after it is received at the mess. The milk is pasteurized to destroy
disease micro-organisms. Fresh milk is an excellent medium for
the growth of bacteria and is easily contaminated. Milk should
never be delivered to the mess in bulk as continued dipping and
mixing of air in the milk again introduces disease organisms. For
this reason, milk should be delivered in half-pint bottles and issued
to the soldier in the same bottle as received. Fresh pasteurized
milk should be used in every mess whenever available, especially for
breakfast, as the men prefer it for their cereal or for drinking.
Buttermilk should be handled in the same manner as described above
for fresh milk.

(2) Evaporated . g Evaporated milk is milk that was reduced to
less than one-half of its original volume by the evaporation of water.
It is usually issued to the mess in 14i/^ -ounce cans which is sufficient
to make 1 quart of whole milk by the addition of water. It may
be used as it comes from the can, the same as cream. When diluted,
it may be used the same as fresh milk. Evaporated milk keeps well
if not exposed to high temperatures. It should be stored in a cool
place and turned often to keep the cream from separating.

(3) Dry . g (a) There are two principal forms of dry milk. One is
the dry milk containing all the butterfat and is known as “dry whole
milk.” The other is the product from which has been removed all


Digitized by Google


70


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

35


fat which it is possible to remove. This product is sold as “dry
milk solids not over 1^ percent fat,” “dried skimmed milk,” “skim
milk powder,” or “powdered skim milk.” The dry whole milk is
flesh, sweet whole milk, from which the water has been removed.
It is a cream-colored powder, containing 26 to 27 percent butterfat.
“Dry milk solids not over I 1/2 percent fat” is fresh, sweet milk from
which both fat and water have been removed.

(b) Because of the fat content, dry whole milk is subject to devel-
opment of rancidity. When pkcked in vacuum or an inert gas, the
oxidation of the butterfat is retarded and it may be stored for
several months. Since the fat content of dry milk solids (skim
milk) is very low, the milk does not easily deteriorate and can be
kept for at least 6 months under ordinary conditions. Because dried
milk readily absorbs moisture it should be kept in an airtight recep-
tacle. If dry milk should become lumpy, the lumps should be broken
with a rolling pin and sifted through a sieve.

(c) Dry milk may be used in dry form in almost any food. Re-
mixing with water is not necessary unless it is used as a beverage
or other dish containing a great deal of liquid. If it is desired to
reconstitute dry milk, the best procedure is to place the necessary
quantity of dry product on top of the water and stir until dissolved.
Lukewarm water is usually best for this purpose g never hot water.
Another method is to add a small quantity of water to the dry
milk product, mix to a paste consistency, and then add the remainder
of the water slowly.

