Eggs_g_a_General___The_term_eggs_unqualified_means
hens’ eggs. Hens’ eggs average, when fresh, approximately 2 ounces
each, of which weight the yolk represents 32 percent, the white 57
percent, and the shell 11 percent. The food value or flavor of the
egg is in no way influenced by the color of the shell. The general
color of the yolk varies with the feed. Green feed and yellow corn
produce dark-colored yolks, while small grain and white corn produce
light -colored yolks. The albumen (egg white) is held together by a
very fine network of fibrous material radiating through it from the
shell membranes. It is this network that enmeshes and holds the air
when an egg is whipped. With age these fibers become weaker and
do not retain the air so well. Consequently, an old egg does not whip
satisfactorily.

(2) The most common deterioration of eggs, especially in warm
weather, is due to germination. Fertile eggs will germinate at any
normal temperature above 68° F. Fresh eggs, therefore, should be
held at temperatures below 68° F. As eggs absorb odors, egg storage
rooms must be kept sweet, clean, and free from foreign odors.

(3) If the egg whites are to be whipped, none of the yolk should
be allowed to get into the dish as it keeps the whites from becoming
fluffy. If many eggs are to be broken into a dish, they should be
broken and dropped into a saucer, one by one, so that any bad eggs
may be thrown out without spoiling the whole batch.

h. Dried eggs . g (1) There are three classes of dried egg products:
dried whole egg, dried yolk, and dried albumen (whites).


Digitized by Google


72


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
36-37


(2) A good dried egg made from strictly fresh 'whole eggs has ex-
cellent keeping qualities, flavor, and aroma. It does not require re-
frigeration and can be stored at ordinary temperatures for several
months. It is a product that will lend itself to field conditions where
it is diflScult to issue fresh eggs or where refrigeration is lacking. It
is also adaptable to cold climates as freezing will not injure the
product.

(3) It is not necessary to reconstitute the powdered egg for baking.
The best method is to add it dry and incorporate it by creaming with
the shortening in the formula. (See par. 6, app.)

