Field_ration_g__The_field_ration_is_that_prescribed_for_use
only in time of war or national emergency when the garrison ration
is not used. It will be issued in kind and no ration savings will be
allowed. Its components and substitutes will be prescribed by the
War Department or the commander of the field forces and will con-
sist of the following:

(а) Field ration A. g This ration will correspond as nearly as
practicable to the components or substitutes therefor of the garrison
ration. This type of field ration will be issued as often as circum-
stances will permit.

(б) Field ration B. g ^This ration will correspond as nearly as
practicable to the components of field ration A with the exception
that nonperishable processed or canned products will replace items
of a perishable nature.

(c) Field ration C. g This ration will consist of previously cooked
or prepared food, packed in hermetically sealed cans, which may be
eaten either hot or cold, and will consist of six cans per ration as
follows :

3 cans containing a meat and vegetable component.

3 cans containing crackers, sugar, soluble coffee, and a confec-
tion.

{d) Field ration D. g This ration will consist of three 4-ounce bars
of concentrated chocolate.

(e) Field ration K. g ^This ration is intended for parachute, air-
borne, and highly mobile units. It consists of previously cooked or
prepared food packed in boxes, wrapped so as to be impervious to
moisture and gas. It consists of three boxes per ration, each con-
taining especially fortified biscuits, canned meat, malted milk tablets,
and chewing gum. The breakfast box also contains soluble coffee and
sugar; the dinner box, bouillon paste; the supper box, lemonade
powder.

(2) In time of war, types C, D, or K field rations are to be issued
only upon order of the commander of the field forces. In time of


105


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-^05

68-70


THE ARMY COOK


peace, such of these types as are available may, for training purposes,
be utilized when directed by proper authority.

(3) When deemed advisable a combination of types C and D may
constitute the field ration. This will normally consist of two cans
of the meat and vegetable component, two cans of the crackers, sugar,
and soluble coffee, and two each of the 4-ounce bars of concentrated
chocolate.

*69. Use of rations. g a. The cook is not concerned with the com-
ponent articles of the garrison ration. The organization commander
decides the kinds and quantities of foods to be purchased out of the
money allowance. These foods need not be, and usually are not,
exactly the same as the components of the garrison ration. The
organization uses the money allowance to purchase foods required
to prepare the dishes called for by the menu.

h. As the field ration is issued in kind, the Army cook is directly
concerned with its components and substitutive articles which are
published in AR 30-2210.

c. Conditions in the field are such that neither the organization
commander, the mess sergeant, nor the cook knows in advance which |
component and which substitutive articles of the field ration will be
received each day. Therefore, it may become necessary to combine ■
two or more of the component or substitutive articles in order to
make one dish. For example, there might be issued for 1 day fresh
carrots and canned peas, neither in sufficient quantity to serve alone.
They may be cooked together. When the field ration is being issued
daily, an effort should be made to entirely consume the issue each
day in order to avoid holding over any portion.

Section VI

KITCHEN MANAGEMENT

Paragraph


Personal cleanliness of cooks 70

Cooking g definite plan of work 71

Cooking g assembling ingredients and utensils 72

Cooking stoves, ranges, and appliances; directions for use 73

Care of ranges and cooking utensils 74

Service of meals 75


