Fish_cookery_g_a_Fish_are_a_healthful_and_delicious_food_if
properly prepared. Salt water fish are an important source of
bromine and iodine^ In all fish the protein or tissue-building mate-
rial is excellent.

h. Fish may be divided as follows:

(1) White fish. g Fish that have less than 5 percent fat, examples of
which are smelt, flounder, yellow perch, pike, pickerel, cod, and
haddock.

(2) Fat or oily fish. g ^Fish that contain 5 percent or more of fat,
examples of which are salmon, herring, lake trout, mackerel, and eels.

(3) Shellfish. g Oysters, claims, scallops, lobsters, crabs, shrimps,
and prawns.


Digitized by


Google


91


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

59-60 THE ARMY COOK

&lt; 7 . Fresh fish, or fish that were frozen while fresh, have full or
bulging eyes, bright red gills, firm and elastic flesh, and fresh odor.
Be sure the flesh along the backbone smells fresh; it spoils there
first. Fresh fish sink in fresh water. If they float, they should not
be used. Frozen fish need not be thawed before cooking. In case
the fish have not been cleaned, they should be thawed only sufficiently
to permit cleaning and then cooked. Frozen fish that come cleaned
should be cooked without thawing, allowing slightly more than the
usual time for cooking.

d, . To fresh salt fish, place the flesh side down in a pan of fresh
water, and let soak from 1 to 48 hours, changing water several times.
If the fish are to be cooked in liquid, they will need a shorter time in
soak than if they are to be cooked with very little moisture.

e. Fish must be well cooked to be palatable and wholesome. They
are cooked sufficiently when the flesh separates easily from the bones.
If underdone, they are not eatable; if cooked too long, they are dry
and lose most of their flavor. All of the various methods of cooking
may be applied to fish. The principal thing is to be sure that the
fish are well cooked and still not overcooked. Frying and deep-fat
frying are the most popular methods of preparing fish in the Army.
The fat for deep-fat frying should be maintained at 360° F. For
large pieces the fat should be slightly lower temperature.

