Fish_g_a_General__Fish_may_be_served_broiled_fried_sauteed
baked, or in salad. Fish are very perishable and for this reason
great care should be taken to avoid serving any which are not in
good condition. All fish should be carefully inspected when received
in the mess and again before being cooked or served, if kept very
long. Fish may be classed as fresh, stale, or putrid, as described
below. Only strictly fresh fish should be accepted or served by the
mess. Fresh fish, if not frozen, should be delivered to the mess
packed in cracked ice. For inspection and handling of frozen fish,
see paragraph 31.

(1) Fresh -fish. g Fresh fish have a bright appearance; the scales
are firmly adherent and glittering; the natural slime, if present, is
that common to the species ; the eyes are outstanding and full ; gills
and mouth closed; blood in abdomen bright with no off odor;
abdominal walls firm and elastic with no discoloration; flesh firm,
elastic, and tight on the bones; when placed horizontally across the
hand the fish does not bend ; when placed in water it sinks.

(2) StaJs -fish. g Stale fish have a duller appearance than fresh;
scales are more or less easily removable and slightly slimy or smeary
or may be abnormally dry; eyes red bordered; surface of eyeball
cloudy; gills pale yellow, dirty or grayish red, and covered with
slime of disagreeable odor; blood in abdomen dull in color and may
have slight off odor; abdominal walls becoming soft and flabby;
body bony and bends easily especially at the tail end; finger impres-
sions easily made and remain ; meat somewhat soft and more easily
discolored. When placed in water a stale fish floats.

(3) Putrid fsh. g All the brightness gone; dull, lifeless color; scales
very loose and covered with a smeary, slimelike mass of very dis-
agreeable odor; eyes breaking down or gone; all bright color gone
from the gills which have an extremely offensive odor ; body withered
and flabby; abdominal walls soft and pulpy with apple- jelly-like

451806*g 42 6 65

Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

33-34


THE ARMY COOK


appearance and discolored ; meat soft ; abdomen bloated ; body blood
dirty brown in color and with offensive odor. A putrid fish floats
when placed in water.

h. To deem fish. g (1) Scaling .  ^The scales are removed with a
knife held at such an angle that the blade will work under the scales
as the knife is pushed in the direction of the head from the tail, with
short, quick motions.

(2) Removing entraUs . g ^With a pointed knife cut the entire
length of the belly from the vent to the head, taking care not to cut
the entrails. Cut the head from the body, starting from the belly
side. The entrails can then be removed by hand. In some small
fish it is possible to remove the entrails with the head by opening
the belly, then loosening the head by cutting from the back, and
pulling in the direction of the vent. After the entrails have been
removed the fish should be wiped thoroughly, inside and out, with a
cloth wrung out of cold water. There may be some clotted blood
near the backbone that cannot be removed in any other way tihan
by wiping.

(3) Shinning . g Eels and bullheads do not have scales and are usu-
ally skinned. The fins along the back should first be removed with a
sharp knife or scissors. Make a cut, skin deep, along the entire back;
grasp the skin on the back, just back of the head, between the thumb
and a knife blade and pull downward and backward. The skin will
usually come off in a sheet. If the flesh is tender, care should be
taken not to tear it by pulling too quickly. In skinning bullheads
it may be necessary to fasten the fish by the head by hanging it on
a hook or by driving a nail through the head, because the skin is
tight to the flesh and it takes hard pulling to remove it. It may
be necessary to use a pair of pliers for this purpose.

(4) Boning. g Haddock, cod, halibut, whitefish, etc., are quite
easily boned. After the fish are scaled (or skinned) and cleaned, run a
sharp knife along each side of the backbone from the tail to the head
and pull back the flesh from the backbone. Any small bones that
cannot be removed readily with the backbone may be pulled out by
the fingers. Another method of boning is to dress the fish and re-
move the head, then grasp the backbone at the head end with one
hand and pull the flesh away from the backbone with the other.
Pull out all loose bones that have not been removed with the back-
bone, and/or scrape over the flat surface of the inside of the fish
with a knife.

