Frozen_meats_and_fish_g_a_In_time_of_peace_beef__veal_lamb
mutton, pork, poultry, and fish may be delivered to Army messes in
either a chilled or frozen condition. “Chilled” means that the meat
lias been held in a chill room until it reaches a temperature of 34°
to 36° F. “Frozen” means that meat has been held in a freezing


Digitized by Google


62


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
31


room, often called cold storage, at a temperature usually below zero
until solidly frozen to the center. In the continental United States,
meats, poultry, and fish normally are received by messes in a chilled
condition. In the Tropics they sometimes are frozen when received.
In time of war they may be received in frozen form both in the
Tropics and elsewhere.

h. Frozen meats and fish should never be thawed in water, as this
soaks out some of the meat juices, which reduces palatability and food
value.

e. While it is possible to thaw in ordinary room temperature, this is
bad practice and should be resorted to only when there is not time to
thaw in a refrigerator, because by the time the meat, poultry, or fish is
thawed to the center the outside may begin to spoil. This spoilage is
evidenced first by a slimy surface, and there may be a slight tainted
odor; these evidences of spoilage increase as time goes on, and
eventually the spoilage reaches such a stage that the surface must be
trimmed away. The best method of preventing surface spoilage while
thawing is to thaw at a temperature slightly above freezing (up to
40° F.). This requires longer time but is safe. Regardless of the
temperature of thawing, there should be a good circulation of air
around the frozen product being thawed. This is because moisture
appears on the surface while thawing, and moisture favors spoilage.
If the air around the thawing meat is kept moving it carries away
the moisture and the meat remains dry and in better condition.

d. If there is not sufficient room in the refrigerator to permit hang-
ing a quarter of frozen beef or a carcass of veal, it must be divided.
This is not particularly difficult. It can be done with a meat saw. It
is less difficult if thawing is allowed until cutting down to the bone
can be done with a knife, but this method is not recommended in a
warm room.

e. When using frozen meats, the time required for thawing must be
considered in planning cooking operations. For example, if roast
beef is to be served on Sunday, the frozen beef should be delivered
Thursday or early Friday morning. Following are approximate
times required for thawing in an Army mess refrigerator:


Hours

Frozen beef, quarters, chucks, or rounds 36-48

Frozen beef, loins, ribs 36-48

Frozen veal, mutton, or lamb carcasses 24-36

Frozen veal, mutton, or lamb cuts 18-30

Frozen pork, cuts 18-30

Frozen poultry or whole fish 12-24


Digitized by


Google


63


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

31-32


THE ARMY COOK


/. Thin cuts of frozen meat, that is. cuts not more than 1 inch thick,
may be satisfactorily pan fried by putting the frozen cuts directly
into the hot pan without first thawing them. In pieces of this size
the frost is quickly driven out, and the interior becomes cooked before
the outside is overcooked. However, if the thin cuts are to be fried
in deep fat, they must first be thawed. If this is not done, the cold
in these cuts will cool the fat below the proper frying temperature.
About the only thin frozen cuts used in Army messes are frozen fish
fillets, and when cooked without being first thawed they are more
palatable.

g. When frozen meats are supplied to troops in the field as part of
the field ration, usually there will be no refrigerator in which to thaw
them. They must be thawed in the open, the rapidity of thawing de-
pending on weather conditions. In hot weather the surface of the
meat will begin to spoil before the meat is thawed at the center. This
spoilage may be retarded by hanging wet cloths or sacks around the
thawing meat. The wind blowing on these wet sacks will keep the
meat cooler than the surrounding atmosphere. Sometimes frozen meat
will be received in the field only a short time before it must be cooked
for the next meal. In such a case a stew may be made, using the
chuck, shanks, or round. The meat saw and cleaver must be used to
cut off these cuts. In hot weather cooked meats will keep longer
than chilled fresh meat, and when necessary to save meat to prevent
loss through spoilage, the cook should not hesitate to cook more meat
than is needed for immediate service.

A. Frozen Army boneless beef should be thawed in the boxes in
which it is packed. Because of the frost in the meat, the box becomes
the equivalent of a refrigerator and keeps all the meat refrigerated
while defrosting is taking place. The surface of the meat is not ex-
posed to the warm air of the room and surface deterioration (slime)
does not develop.

