Fruits_and_vegetables_g_a_Fresh____Fruits__Fresh
fraits should be served daily in organization messes. Advantage
should be taken of fruits that are in season for they are of the best
quality and lowest price. With the present cold storage facilities,
citrus fruits are in season the entire year. They are of especial value
for their vitamin content and should be included in the menu at
frequent intervals. The vitamin content of fruit is utilized to best
advantage when served raw, however, a variety of desserts can be
made by the cooking of fresh fruits. This may be especially desirable
when green apples are on the market for use in pie, cobbler, and
sauces. Underripe or green fruits have a high starch content and
should be cooked to make them digestible.

(2) Vegetables . g Fresh vegetables are best in appearance and flavor
and richest in vitamin value when freshly gathered. Much of the
vitamin value is lost through storage and handling, due to oxidation.

76


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

43


More vitamins and minerals are lost through overcooking or cooking
in a large amount of water. Some of the vitamins are destroyed by
heat or dissolved in water. It is obvious, therefore, that the maximum
nutritive value will be retained by the avoidance of overcooking,
soaking too long in water, and the use of small quantities of cooking
water. The water in which the vegetables are cooked contains water-
soluble vitamins and minerals and should be used for soups, gravies,
and sauces. As many of the vitamins and minerals are lost through
cooking, fresh vegetables should be served raw as salads when it is
safe to do so. Raw carrots can be combined with raisins. Coleslaw
combined with apples and a little raw onion makes a good salad rich
in protective foods. However, salads should be prepared just before
serving to preserve their freshness and nutritive value. Many such
varities can be made by the cook, through planning and the exercise of
ingenuity.

h. Dried. g (1) General .  ^There are several terms used to designate
dried fruits and vegetables: dehydrated, evaporated, sun-dried, and
dried. These terms refer to the methods used for drying. “Dried”
refers to all dried food regardless of the means used for extracting
the moisture. Considerable progress has been made in the dehydra-
tion of fruits and when properly prepared they will make a very tasty
dish. There are two classes of dehydrated fruits and vegetables on
the market. The flake and powder form does not rehydrate to its
original form and is used for jellies, desserts, bakery products, ice
cream, ices, and sherbets. The other form is the fruit or vegetable
dehydrated in the original form or in pieces, and when rehydrated,
can be used the same as fresh fruits or vegetables.

(2) Fruits . g During an emergency it may be necessary to use dried
fruits to conserve storage and transportation space. Much of the
vitamin and mineral content is lost during the dehydration process
but those fruits are otherwise of the same nutritional value as canned
fruits. Dried fruits, such as raisins, prunes, and apricots, are sub-
ject to insect infestation and should be kept in well- ventilated storage
not over 50° F. Others are dried to a very low moisture content and
do not require as low a storage temperature. These products take up
moisture from the air very rapidly and should be stored in a dry
place and kept well covered at all times.

(3) V egetables . g The terms used for dried fruits apply also for
dried vegetables. The powder and .flake are used for seasoning and
soups. The whole or diced and sliced types are used for vegetable
dishes in the same manner as fresh vegetables. Many of these prod-


77


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-^5
43-45


THE ARMY COOK


ucts require but a few minutes for preparation as compared to hours
with the old type of dried vegetable.

(a) Beam . g ^There are a number of types of dry beans that may
be purchased for mess uses. Each type has a number of different
varieties with the exception of the black-eye bean, which is also known
as the “cowpea” or “black-eye pea.” The Great Northern navy bean
may be issued at one time and a small pea bean the next. The two
are different varieties of the navy bean. The kidney bean may be
red or dark red ; the lima bean may be large or baby lima bean. The
eating qualities of the various varieties are the same, but the cooking
qualities differ. For this reason the issue should be of one variety.
These dry beans should be soaked for several hours before cooking.
If large navy beans are mixed with small pea beans, the small bean
will be overcooked and mush before the large bean is properly cooked.
The white beans are preferred for baking while colored beans, lima
beans, or black-eye beans are usually simmered.

(d) Rice . g ^Polished rice is usually supplied the Army mess. Un-
polished or “brown rice” has a high vitamin content, especially B 1
complex, and should be used where the soldier will eat it. It has
a different flavor from polished rice and should be tried in the mess
before a large quantity is ordered.

