Garbage_g_a_Source___Garbage_should_accumulate_only_from
uneaten food on the men’s mess kits or plates and unavoidable
kitchen waste. Both of these sources should be held to a minimum.


Digitized by Google


142


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

82


Food left on serving platters, in cooking utensils, etc., should be
carefully conserved. No edible food should ever go into the garbage
if it can possibly be avoided.



b. Disposal . g (1) Whenever facilities are not provided for dis-
posing of the kitchen waste, it becomes necessary to dig a slop pit.
Open slop pits should be avoided as they attract flies and spread
infection. It is necessary, in a camp of other than temporary dura-
tion, to strain all dishwater and liquid garbage through a box sieve
suitably placed over a pit and burn all solid matter in the range
or incinerator. To darken the pit and keep it free from flies, make
a board top, tamp edges with dirt, and provide a detachable box
sieve with cover (fig. 43). The pit should generally be about 2^^



Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




TM 10-405

82


THE ARMY COOK


feet wide, 5 feet long, and 4 feet deep when dug in clay, and should
be filled about half full with large rocks. In more permeable soil
the dimensions may be somewhat reduced.

(2) To build a company incinerator, dig two trenches 10 feet
long and 10 or 12 inches wide, bisecting each other. At the point of
bisection have the trenches 30 inches deep, gradually shallowing from
this point to the ends. Fill with rocks until about 18 inches deep at



center. Over the place of bisection place four boards to support an
ordinary sugar or flour barrel. Around the barrel pile sods of earth
packed tightly up to the top. Make a fire in the trench under the
barrel, which, upon being burned out, leaves a hard cone (fig. 44).
According to the direction of the wind, leave one trench open and
plug the other three openings near the cone with boards, turf, or
loose soil. This gives a draft of air through the open trench and
up through the cone, which acts as a flue. If the soil is full of clay
the cone is easily made. If not, it can be done by using sods.


Digitized by Google


144


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

82


(3) All the garbage produced by a large organization kitchen can
be easily disposed of by this means. At the end of each day the
ashes and tin cans should be raked out of the fireplace and a fresh
fire started in the morning. The fire is kept up by dropping fuel
material down the cone, and garbage is fed to it in the same manner.
The incinerator is also very satisfactory for disposing of waste water.


451596”g 42 10


Dig!


ized by


I


Google


i

■i


1

i


3



r

145

Original from }

UNIVERSITY OF CAl'fFORNIA



THE AMY COOK


TM 10-405

83


Chapter 2
KECIPES

Paragraphs


Section I. General 83-84

Page

II. List of recipes 147


Section I
GENERAL

Paragraph


Arrangement 83

Variation 84


