Installation_and_use_of_Army_field_range_M_on_troop
trains. g a. The Association of American Railroads considers that
that the Army field range M1937 can be safely used for cooking oit
troop trains when installed and operated in accordance with tha
instructions below. j

h. All range cabinets, securely latched together as a battery, will;
be placed against the side wall of a baggage car, and secured by stay
chains and wooden blocks as indicated in figure 40. The woodeo
blocks will be secured with 16-penny nails or with lag screws, which-
ever will result in the least damage to the car floor. The large hook
on the outer end of the chain will be run through a link of the
chain and will serve as a pull bar against the outer ends of the
wooden blocks. In event the car furnished has a wooden interior,
the range set will be placed 2 inches from the side of the car.


Digitized by


Google


140


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA




THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

80


c. The installation of the range will be made under the super-
vision of a commissioned officer.

d. One 5-gallon gasoline safety-filling can is furnished as standard
equipment with each range set. Only one such can of gasoline will
be carried in a car, except where the number of range cabinets in-
stalled exceeds three, in which event two such cans of gasoline may
be carried. Gasoline cans will be placed in individual wood con-
tainers secured to the car floor as indicated in figure 41. The wooden
containers will be as far removed from the ranges as is practically
possible.



e. One 1-quart carbon tetrachloride fire extinguisher and one
bucket of sand will be provided in the car for each range set of three
cabinets.

f. Since the carrying in the car of gasoline in excess of the quantity
authorized in paragraph d above is prohibited, arrangements will be
made for replenishing the safety cans en route.

ff. Fire units will be removed to the other end of the car or out-
side of the car, if practicable, for refueling. In no event will units
he refueled while there is any fire in the car or while the car is in
motion. The work of refueling fire units will be supervised by a
commissioned officer.

A. The installation and use of equipment normally provided for
heating water in the field is prohibited on troop trains. The fire unit


Digitized by Gociole


141


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405


80-82


THE ARMY COOK

normally used for heating water may be carried on troop trains as a
spare, provided it is securely fastened to the floor of the car.

i. In order to decrease the fire hazard when ranges are installed
in railroad cars with wooden floors, a metal sheet will be placed under
the cabinets. This sheet will cover the entire floor area occupied by
the range and should extend at least 4 inches beyond the front edge
of the cabinets. Twenty-gage metal or heavier is suitable for the
purpose.



SECURED TO FLOOR
BY NAILINO

Figure 41. g Container for gasoline can.

