Installation_of_Army_field_range_No__in_baggage_car_g
a. To install the field range No. 1 in a baggage car as part of an
emergency kitchen equipment when kitchen cars are not available,
construct a box 7 feet 8 inches long by 3 feet 4 inches wide and
about 12 inches deep (inside measurements), with bottom, using
1^- or 2-inch material as available. Line the sides ♦ * ♦ 2 inches
of the top. Place a brick at each of the four corners where the
range will sit. Place range in box * * • installed in the above
manner.


* * * * * * *

[A. G. 062.11 (9-24-42).] (C 1. Dec. 11, 1942.)


Bt Order of the Secretary of War :


Officxal:

J. A. ULIO,

Major General,

The Adjutant General.


G. C. MARSHALL,

Chief of Staff.



Digitizet




32907


Original from

0. s. |^| pQ ^


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
C 2



Changes 1
No. 2 /


TECHNICAL lilANUAL


rtHE ARJtV COOK




WAR DEPARTMENT,


Washington, D. 0., 18 June 1943.


TM 10-405, April 24, 1942, is changed as follows :

Installation_of_Army_field_range_No__in_baggage_car_g

fl. To install the field range No. 1 in a baggage car as part of an
emergency kitchen equipment when kitchen cars are not available,
construct a box 6 feet 8 inches long by 5 feet 6 inches wide and
about 12 inches deep (inside measurements), with bottom, using
1Y2- or 2-inch material as available. Line the sides, ends, bottom,
and top edge of the box with galvanized iron or zinc. Place box in
car on 2 by 4’s running lengthwise on one side of the car about 2
feet from the side, giving a 4-inch air space between bottom of box
and floor of car. Fill box with dirt to about 2 inches of the top.
Place a brick flush with top of dirt at each of the four corners
where the range will set. Place range in box, front and oven end
close up against end of box, and deep enough in the box so that when
oven door is opened it will lie flat on the edge of box. Place boiling
plate in box, the end resting on top of angle iron on rear of range.
Place brick under each front corner of boiling plate flush with top
of the dirt. The Alamo attachments are not used when range No. 1
is installed in the above manner.

b. Fasten range and boiling plate firmly to box by means of strap
iron, or two or three strands of telephone or telegraph wires at points
shown in figure 39. Fill space between range, boiling plate and side
of box with soft mud to prevent heat from escaping. Three and
even four field ranges may be installed in a car.


Digitized by


Google


137


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405


79 THE ARMY COOK



Figure 38. g Gasoline fire unit parts and tools.


c. Remove one of the top ventilating windows from car; tack tent
guards, furnished with each range, over the opening, one on the out-
side of the car and one on the inside. Carry stovepipe up and out
through the opening. End of pipe should extend about 6 inches out-
side of the opening. Elbow should be placed on end of pipe facing
up and wired firmly to car. Wire stovepipe firmly to both sides of
car.

d. Box can be held firmly in position on floor of car by nailing
2 by 4 strips around sides and ends of box. This is important and
must not be neglected.

e. The following additional equipment to that supplied with each
range is necessary: two galvanized iron water cans, two galvanized
iron buckets, one stovepipe elbow, and 100 feet of wire.


Digitized by Google


138


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10-405

THE ARMY COOK 79



no


®

Figure -"{S. g Gasoline Are unit parts and tools  Continued.

/. Water cans should be filled on every possible occasion when stops
are made.

g. If the equipment is to be set up in a freight car, a hole would
have to be cut in the top of the car for the stovepipe, using tent guards
as explained in c above, to cover this opening.

A. The commanding officer of troops on a train carrying a kitchen
car in which a field range has been installed, will issue such orders
as may be necessary to insure watchful attention being given the
range and the fire in the range, continuously by day or night.


Digitized by Google


139


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10-405

79-80


THE ARMY COOK


i. Six bricks, placed three to the side, as shown in figure 39 will serve
to hold the range securely in position while the car is in motion.

j. A freight car sliould not be used unless absolutely necessary as
the Government will be compelled to pay for repairs necessary to
replace the car in proper condition.



