Lamb_g_a_General___According_to_available_figures_approxi
mately 93 percent of the lambs produced in this country are marketed
before they are old enough to be called mutton. Climatic conditions
in different parts of the country, combined with orderly marketing on
the }&gt;art of lamb growers and feeders, are responsible for making
quality lamb available the year around.

&amp;. Four classificationg . g The four general classifications of lamb
are : hothouse lamb, genuine spring lamb, spring lamb, and lamb.
Hothouse lambs are in the luxury class. Their sale is limited to a


Digitized by Google


40


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
22


few of the largest cities. Genuine spring lambs are from about 3 to 5
months old. Since practically all lambs are bom from December to
June inclusive, depending upon the climate in various sections of the
country, this means that genuine spring lamb is available from March
to November, although it is most plentiful from April to July.
Spring lambs are from about 5 to 8 months old. The bulk of these
lambs reach the market from July to December. The fourth classifi-
cation, “lamb,” refers to those which are from approximately 8 to 12
months of age. Most of these lambs come from the feed lots and are
usually available from J anuary to May.

&lt;?. ffow to identify. g (1) There is no definite age when lamb be-
comes mutton but there are certain features which characterize young
lamb, lamb, and mutton. Bones are the most important indication
of age. The bones in young lamb are soft and reddish in color. As
the animal becomes older the bones gradually harden, and at the same
time they lose their pinkish color and turn white. The “break” joint
in the lower fore shank bone is a sure means of identifying lamb.
This joint has four well-defined ridges. In young lamb the ridges are
smooth, moist, and red. As the lambrmatures this joint loses its color
and moistness. When the mutton stage is reached the break joint
cannot be broken. The forefoot must be taken off at the round
(spool) joint, immediately below the break joint.

(2) Lamb cannot be identified by its size. Excellent quality fed
lambs often weigh more than mutton. Improved breeding and feed-
ing are producing top quality dressed lambs which weigh as high as
60 pounds or more. A good indication of age, however, is the color
of flesh. In lamb the color varies from light to dark pink. The color
deepens as the animal grows older. In mutton the flesh will be dark
red. Lamb fat is softer than mutton fat. It is creamy white or
slightly pink. Mutton fat is whiter and more brittle.

d. Place of lamb in mess . g ^Lamb has a definite place in the Army
menu. It is easy to cut, cook, and serve. The meat is young and
tender. Its appearance on the table will be welcomed by the men
because of the variety it adds to the menu. The entire back section
(shoulders, rack, loin, and legs) can be cut into chops for broiling and
pan-broiling ; but probably the most satisfactory method of using car-
cass lamb in the Army menu is to serve it in two ways g lamb stew and
lamb roast. When used as stew, all surplus fat should be removed
from the meat. Roast lamb should be cooked well done or just
slightly under the well-done stage. The “fell,” that thin, papery cov-
ering over the lamb, does not need to be removed from lamb roasts.
It does not affect the flavor of the lamb and, when left on, it helps


Digitized by


Google


41


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

22-23 THE ARMY COOK

to keep in the juices and hold the roasts in shape. The fell should
be removed from loin and rib chops.

