Meat_cutting_g_a_General____Every_mess_where_meats_are
cut should be equipped with a set of knives for various purposes ; how-
ever, meat can be satisfactorily cut with a knife and saw if kept sharp.
Butcher knives are best for cutting roasts and steaks. Boning knives,
including at least one with a short, narrow blade, are best for removing
bones. A saw is needed. A good butcher uses a cleaver very little. A
hand meathook is an aid in handling and boning beef. A hook is rather
inconvenient to one not accustomed to it, but it becomes indispensable
to one skilled or experienced in its use.

(2) A good job of meat cutting cannot be done with dull tools.
Saws, knives, and cleavers should be sharp. A butcher’s steel is used
only to keep the edges of knives straight, not to sharpen them. The
sharpening should be done on a grindstone and finished on a smooth
whetstone. Saws are sharpened by filing. Frequently the teeth of the
saw need setting to give them the proper angle. This requires special
equipment. The average person is not competent to set and sharpen
meat saws. Ketail butchers now rent sharp saw blades from tool
supply houses for a nominal charge. As the blades become dull they
are exchanged for sharp ones.


Digitized by Google


16


Origiual from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

18


h. Uses of tools . g In cutting meat to the best advantage proper
tools are needed. Keep in mind that each piece of cutlery was
designed to do a certain job, therefore it is advisable for the cook
to study his meat cutting tools and use each piece for the work for
which it was intended. For example, the short, narrow, stiff blades
of boning knives were designed especially for cutting through joints
and for cutting close around bones in order to separate them from
the meat. Steak knives with long, wide blades were made to cut
steaks and roasts. Knives with thin blades, such as the french
sheer and roast beef sheer, are best suited for carving cooked meat.

c. Kinds of tools . g With few exceptions the following tools will
fill just about every meat cutting and carving need :

6- inch boning knife (straight).

6- inch boning knife (curved).

10-inch steak knife (scimitar).

10-inch steak knife (straight).

12-inch cook’s knife (Sabatier type).

12-inch roast beef sheer.

7- inch cleaver.

12-inch steel (smooth or semismooth).

22-inch meat saw.

Hand meathook.

Steel fork.

(1) Knives . g Sharp knives are essential for efficient work. Oneway
to keep them sharp is to use them only for the work they were in-
tended to do. For instance, a boning knife has a comparatively
narrow bevel along the edge. It will stand much more abuse and
hard work than a properly ground steak knife, which has a wide
bevel and a thin edge. Rule number one should be; “Never use a
steak knife for boning meat.”

(a) Sharpening . g ^Knives should never be sharpened on a power-
driven dry stone since this will remove the temper from the cutting
edge. A water stone or carborundum oilstone may be purchased at
a reasonable cost. Either of these make good sharpening units.
There also are combination units on the market. Some of these con-
tain two stones and some three, each of a different degree of coarse-
ness. The stones are securely fastened together on a revolving shaft.
The base of the unit is filled with a light oil.

The knife is first put on a rough stone, then on a smoother one.
Use the entire stone for sharpening the knife. In this manner, the
stone will not “hollow out” at a particular point. It is best to draw
the full blade, from heel to tip, across the full length of the stone


451596 °g 42 -


17


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
18


THE ARMY COOK


in each movement. Turn the knife over and pull back in the same
manner from the opposite end of stone. In this fashion the knife
is sharpened evenly and smoothly and the stone is worn uniformly.
When the knife has sufficient edge, clean the blade and handle
thoroughly before using.

(6) Steeling . g After the knife has been sharpened on a stone, use
a smooth or semismooth steel to keep it sharp. Imagine putting a
razor on a rough steel and you will realize why a smooth steel is
better than a coarse one for keeping a keen edge on a knife blade.
The following shows the easiest and most effective method of steeling
a knife (fig. 1) :

