Meat_specialties_g_a_General__The_name_meat_specialties
is given to those edible parts of beef, veal, pork, and lamb which can-
not be classed with the regular cuts. They are known also as '“extra" ■
edible parts,” “fancy meats,” “meat sundries,” “variety meats,” etc.

60

Diflitized tjy COOQIc i

VJVJV UNIVERSITY OF CALIF0RNlil_j



TM 10-405

THE ARMY COOK 30

Use of these specialties is desirable because they introduce variety in
the menu. They are economical. In addition, they furnish the same
food elements found in muscle meats, and in some cases are extraordi-
nary sources of these nutrients, being rich in vitamin A and in the
vitamin B group. Because of their high moisture content and their
lack of fat, these organs do not keep well and should be kept in the
refrigerator until time to use them. There is little waste in these
meats, and being boneless, it is easy to figure the number of pounds
needed for one meal.

TABLE OF MEAT SPECIALTIES


Name

Characteristics

Cooking methods

Brains:



Calf, lamb,
pork, beef.

Very tender, soft in consistency

Precook. Cream;
scramble; fry.

Heart:



Veal, lamb,

Muscular organ which has had consider-

Stuff and braise.

pork, beef.

able exercise. Boneless; high percent-
age edible. Beef heart largest.

Cook in water.

Kidneys: .

Surfaces of all kidneys are smooth and


Veal, lamb.

Cook in water.

pork, beef.

moist. Veal and beef kidneys charac-
terized by irregular depressions in sur-

Stew; broil.


face.


Liver:



Veal, lamb,

Beef liver largest. Pork liver highest in

Braise; fry;

pork, feef.

iron. All excellent sources of essential
nutrients.

broil.

Oxtails, beef

Sweetbreads:

Well flavored. Considerable bone.. _

Soup; braise.

Veal, beef.

Great delicacy. Tender. Thymus gland

Braise; fry;

lamb.

of calf, young beef, and lamb. Divided
into two kinds: heart and throat

sweetbreads.

broil.

Tongue:



Veal, lamb,
pork, beef.

Pork, lamb, and veal tongues are usually
sold in a ready-to-serve form. Beef
tongue may be purchased fresh, pickled,
corned, or smoked. Boneless; high
percentage of lean meat.

Cook in water.


h. Sweetbreads . g ^These are the thymus glands of beef, veal, and
lamb. Veal sweetbreads are larger than those from beef. As the
animal matures, the anterior part called “throat sweetbreads” disap-


Digitizec by Google


61


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

30-31


THE ARMY COOK


pears, but the posterior part known as “heart sweetbreads” is used.
Calf sweetbreads are more valuable commercially. Swine (pork) do
not have sweetbreads, while those of lamb are too small to have any
commercial value.

c. Brains . g Brains and sweetbreads are much alike in tenderness
and texture, and may be used in much the same way. An occasional
mess including brains is looked upon with favor by Army men.

d. Hearts. g Veal, lamb, and pork hearts are tenderer than those
from beef. They are also smaller. The heart is a muscular organ
and the meat is fibrous. Beef hearts contain a small piece of carti-
lage near the top center. This should be removed. Beef hearts
should be given long, slow cooking to make them tender.

e. Tongue . g Like hearts, the tongue receives considerable exercise
and, before it is cooked, is one of the least tender of meat specialties.
Veal and beef tongues are larger than those from pork or lamb.
Tongue is sold fresh, pickled, corned, or smoked.

/. Kidneys . g This variety meat is prized highly. Kidney stew espe-
cially has become famous. Kidneys should be of a dark red color,
firm texture, and free from strong odors. Pork, beef, veal, and lamb
kidneys are equally satisfactory for mess use. If kidneys have a
strong odor, this can l^e removed by slicing and soaking the meat in
salt water for several hours before cooking. While the kidneys
taken from a beef carcass are not sufficient in quantity by themselves
for a meal for the mess, they can be used to good advantage in lean
beef stew, potpie, or in soups and gravies.

g. Liver . g Liver is a very rich source of iron and other substances
concerned in the formation of red blood cells. It also is an excellent
source of vitamin A and the B complex. The flavor of liver is
enhanced by serving it with bacon. Pork and lamb liver should be
scalded before cooking; beef and veal liver need not be. Beef livers
should be full, short, thick, and tender, of a dark mahogany color,
have the gall bladder removed, and be free from bile stains.

h. Oxtails . g While they have considerable bone, oxtails also have a
goodly portion of meat and are very rich in flavor. Oxtails require
long, slow cooking in moist heat to make them tender and are used
for soup or prepared by braising. Before preparation, they should
be cut into pieces at each joint.

