Meat_g_a_General___Meat_is_the_flesh_of_any_animal_used_for
food. Commercially, it consists of muscle tissue, connective tissue, fat,
and bone. Eklible glands and organs are also classed as meat, but may
be referred to as meat specialities, sundry meats, fancy meats, or
variety meats.

h. Kinds of meat . g ^The kinds of meat are : beet from cattle, veal
from calf, pork from hog, and lamb from sheep.

c. V (due in diet . g ^Meat supplies many of the essential food elements
necessary to make the diet adequate.

(1) Protein. g ^Meat, containing about 20 percent protein, is a very
concentrated source of this important food element. Meat protein is
of high quality, as all animal proteins are superior to vegetable proteins.

(2) Calories . g ^All meats contain fats in greater or lesser degree, and
have a caloric value varying with the degree of fatness. Some fat is
lost during cooking or the visible fat may be cut away before eating,


Digitizec by Google


15


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

17-18


THE ARMY COOK


and so the caloric value will depend upon (he method of cooking and
the personal preference of the individual.

(3) Minerals. g {a) Meat is a valuable source of two of the three
minerals (calcium, phosphorus, and iron) in which the average diet is
most likely to be deficient. Meat, although not a good source of cal-
cium, is the richest source of phosphorus, which is necessary in the
utilization of calcium.

{h) Meat is an excellent source of iron which is in a readily utiliz-
able form. Liver of all types has a higher content of iron than any
other food, pork liver containing three times as much iron as beef liver,
which is higher than calf or lamb liver. Iron is better utilized when
even a very small amount of copper is present. Meat supplies copi^er.
too, which aids in the utilization of iron.

(4) Vitamins . g Meats (particularly the glandular organs) are im-
portant sources of the B vitamins, among which are vitamin Bi (thia-
mine), vitamin Bg (riboflavin or vitamin G), and niacin (nicotinic
acid). Lean pork is especially rich in thiamine. Many of the B vita-
mins are destroyed by heat. Overcooking is, therefore, to be avoided.

d. Canned meat . g Canned meats are composed almost wholly of lean
meat, as most of the fat is trimmed away in preparation for canning.
Canned meat is, therefore, a good source of protein, phosphorus, iron,
copper, and the B vitamins, but is comparatively low in fuel value.

