Meats_carving_and_serving_g_a_General____The_chief
objectives of good carving are to obtain attractiveness and the best
flavor from the meat, and to prevent waste. Meat should never be
carved with a hard, sawing motion. Carved meat should be placed on
the platter with the most appetizing side up and the pieces arranged
in an attractive manner, not thrown loosely on the platter. It
requires no expense, and very little effort, to arrange meat neatly
on a platter so that it will be pleasing to the eye.

(2) Good carving cannot be accomplished without good tools.
Sharp carving knives are essential. Knives should be run over a
steel just before starting to carve and frequently during the carving,
if the amount of carving warrants. (See fig. 1.) The steel should
be held in the left hand, in a nearly horizontal position (the point
slightly raised) and parallel to the body. The knife should be held j
in the right hand. Start the blade along one side of the steel, begin- |
ning with the heel of the knife at the point of the steel. The strokes
should be reversed from side to side of the steel. All hand motion
of the knife blade along the steel should be in the wrist and not a
movement of the entire forearm. The touch of the blade on the
steel should be light and six strokes should be sufficient; if more are
required, the knife should be sharpened on a stone. If the knife is
sharp the cut will be clean and even.

h. Carving rih roasts . g Beef should be sliced across the grain into
pieces of uniform size and thickness convenient for individual serv-
ice, not cut into chunks. Rib roasts are tempting and appetizing
when neatly sliced across but have no appeal if cut into chunks. An |
excellent way of carving a rib roast is as follows: Stand the roast |
on end on a carving board or wooden table with the rib bones to
the left of, and with the meat side away from, a right-handed
carver. Stick a large meat fork in the bone side of the roast, low
enough that the knife will not strike the fork, and hold the roast
firm with the fork in the left hand; cut thin slices across the grain
until the knife reaches the bone. Cut several slices in this manner,
leaving them attached to the bone and then run the point of the
knife along the bone, releasing the slices. By this method all the
meat can be cut from the bones except the small strings between
the ribs.

c. Carving rounds roasts . g Use a long, thin knife. To start the
carving, place the roast on a carving board with the large or rump
end down and the small or shank end up. Start at the outer edge
of the meat and cut across the face (across the grain) of the roast,
cutting toward the round bone and making the slices about % inch


Digitized by Google


90


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
67-59


thick. As the knife approaches the bone, raise the edge so that it
will come to the surface just as it reaches the bone. Each slice
should be about the size of the hand. Continue slicing around the
roast, turning it so as to keep the cut surface of the roast level.

d,. Preparation and carving of pork loin roasts. g ^Pork loins con-
tain the backbone and part of the rib. The backbone should be
cracked with a cleaver at about 1-inch intervals before roasting the
meat. This enables the carver to cut slices from the loin through
the meat and the bone. The slices should be about ^ inch thick and
every other slice will contain a piece of the backbone and the rib.

