Mess_personnel_should_see_that_all_food_received_in_the_mess_is
clean, sanitary, wholesome, in full weight and measure, and of the
grade required by Government specifications. Food which is decom-
posed or rotten, insect-infested (wormy), moldy, musty, etc., should
not be accepted. While it is not expected that mess personnel be
experts in determining whether the grade is that required by Govern-
ment specifications, whenever it is suspected that food delivered is
below the required grade, the matter should be reported to the
organization commander. Discrepancies in weight, measure, or
count should be noted on the delivery ticket or invoice before the
foods are accepted. A few minutes spent in making the proper in-
spection of foods at the time of delivery will insure receipt of clean,
sound, and wholesome food and will result in an annual saving of
many dollars to the mess.

c. It is especially important to inspect for condition all highly
perishable foods, as meats, fish, poultry, fresh milk, fresh fruits and
vegetables, butter, eggs, etc. It is also important to inspect canned
foods to see that there are no swelled or leaky cans and to inspect
cereals to see that there are no insects or worms present. Examples
of foods which should not be accepted are slimy, foul smelling, or
bruised meats, fish, and poultry ; scabby or rotten potatoes ; wilted or
badly rusted lettuce ; scaly or spotted apples; bruised peaches; swollen
or leaking canned foods; and insect-infested or wormy flour or
cereals.

d. Accurate scales should be available in every mess. The Govern-
ment contracts for net weights, that is, the weight of the food with


Digitized by


Google


9


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

14-15


THE ARMY COOK


weifrlit of the container deducted. A mess should not pay for some-
thing; it does not receive. The weight of wrapping paper, burlap
bags, cardboard containers, etc., should be deducted when checking
weights.

e. Meat that has spoiled usually has an unmistakable odor. Sur-
face slime results from the growth of bacteria on the surface of the
meat and follows exposure of the meat to too high temperature and
high humidity. Meat that is kept cold and dry does not become
slimy. Surface slime is not always indicative of spoilage. Wash-
ing or slight trimming usually removes surface slime and the meat
beneath the surface is found to be sound. Sourness (spoilage) near
the bone can be detected by the use of a steel trier which is inserted
into the meat near the bone and smelled as soon as it is withdrawn.
A knife with a polished blade might be used for the same purpose.
Deep spoilage may also be detected by cutting the piece of meat in
two and smelling the cut surface. Surface mold on meats is not
harmful. If mold is extensive and washed or trimmed away it
might impart a moldy flavor to the meat, but it is not harmful to
health. If any doubt exists as to the soundness of meat, a qualified
inspector should be consulted.

/. Spoilage of canned food is generally indicated by swelled cans.
The contents of a can with swelled or bulged ends or sides should
never be served. Starchy vegetables, as corn, pumpkin, squash, etc.,
sometimes spoil without swelling the can, but on opening the can
the spoiled condition is unmistakable, as the odor and taste are very
disagreeable. (See par. 37c?.)

