Methods_of_cooking_and_terms_defined_g_a_Methods
Baking . g Cooking by dry heat, usually in an oven.

Boiling . g Cooking in water at a temperature of 212° F. Slowly boil-
ing water has the same temperature as rapidly boiling water, con-
sequently is able to do the same work g a fact often forgotten by
the cook, who is apt to wood the fire that water may boil vigorously.
Braising . g ^To brown in a hot receptacle in a small amount of fat,
then cook slowly in a small amount of liquid, covered.

BroUvng . g Cooking by direct heat from hot coals, a gas flame, or an
electric element.

461596°g 42 6 81


Digitize? by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
52


THE ARMY COOK


Deep- fat frying. g Cooking in hot fat at a temperature of from 350°
to 400° F., depending on the nature of the food to be cooked.

Fricasseeing. g A combination of sauteing with stewing. Tlie food to
be fricasseed is first sauteed, then stewed.

Frying. g Cooking in just enough fat to keep the food from sticking.

Oven hroiling. g Cooking in a broiler pan that runs close under the
heat in the broiling oven of a gas or electric stove.

Pan hroiling. g Cooking in a hot griddle or pan greased only enough
to prevent food from sticking.

. Presftvre cooking. g Cooking in steam at a pressure of 5 to 30 pounds
and at temperatures 228° to 274° F. The rise in the temperature
of the steam is caused by holding it under pressure. A special
cooker is necessary for this cooking.

R ousting. g As now used, this means the same as baking. The term is
usually applied to meat cookery.

Sauteing. g Cooking in a small quantity of fat. The article to be
cooked must be shifted from side to side and turned to come in
contact with the fat.

Searing. g Browning the surface of meat by the short application of
intense heat.

Simmering . g Cooking in water at a temperature of 180° to 210° F.,
or below the boiling point of water.

Steaming. g Cooking in the steam generated by boiling water.

Stewing . g Cooking in a small amount of water. The water may sim-
mer or boil, as indicated for the food that is to be cooked.
h. Cooking terms.

Baste . g To pour liquid over a piece of meat during roasting or broiling
to prevent drying. The liquid used may be pan drippings, water,
stock, milk, or melted butter.

Bouillon. g A soup stock made from lean beef, clarified by straining,
and seasoned. It may be used as soup stock or served as soup.

Broth . g The liquid resulting from simmering meat in water.

C on-HOmme . g A soup made from tw'o or more kinds of meat, then sea-
soned, strained, and served clear.

Drawn hutter. g ISIelted butter, flour, seasoning, and hot water used as
a sauce for fish and vegetables.

Lard. g Placing strips of fat on top of, or inserting into, meat to add
flavor and prevent dryness in roasting.

Lardoon. g A long, slender, pencil-like portion of salt pork, bacon, or
suet, used for larding.

Marinate. g To let stand in a mixture such as oil, vinegar, lemon juice,
and seasoning called a marinade.


Digitized by Google


82


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
52-53


Parhoil. g To boil until partly cooked.

Pot roast. g A piece of meat cooked by braising. Usually the less
tender meat cuts are prepared as pot roasts.

Stock. g ^The liquid obtained by simmering meat and bones. A good
base for soup and gravies.

