Methods_of_meat_cookery_g_a_General___The_method_used
in cooking meat depends on the cut. The tender cuts have a small
amount of connective tissue and are cooked by dry heat: roasting,
broiling, and pan broiling. The less tender cuts with considerable
connective tissue must be cooked by moist heat because dry heat
toughens the connective tissue, while moist heat softens it. Methods
of cooking by moist heat are: braising, cooking in water (simmer-
ing), and stewing (small pieces simmered).

h. Roasting . g The time required to roast meats depends upon the
temperature of the oven, the size and shape of the piece of meat,
and the amount of fat. Well-done meat requires a longer time to
cook than rare meat; a large piece of meat requires longer to cook
than a small piece, but less time per pound ; fat meats tend to roast
more rapidly than lean meats. Meat can be cooked well-done at
any reasonable oven temperature, although the best results are ob-
tained with a moderate oven temperature (about 300° F.) because
the meat is cooked more evenly than in a hot oven. Furthermore,
there are less cooking losses, more juice, more servings, and the
meat is more palatable. It is not necessary to sear meat before
cooking, except to develop flavor on the outer surface. Browning
of the meat juices in the pan after the meat is done will develop flavor
for gravies. The gravy of roasted meats plays an important part
in a satisfying meal. A good gravy is as important as well-roasted
meat.

(1) Beef . g Wipe the roast with a damp cloth. (Meat should
never be washed or soaked in water.) Place meat in a pan with fat
side up. Roast at 300° to 350° F. For meat well-done, allow 50 to
60 minutes per pound for rolled roasts, and 40 to 50 minutes for
unboned roasts.

(2) Veal . g Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Place in roaster


Digitized by


Google


88


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
56


with the outside of the roast up and place string of salt pork or
bacon over the top. Place in an oven heated to 375° F. for black
pans, or 375° to 400° F. for aluminum pans, when covered. Allow
approximately 30 to 35 minutes per pound. As veal contains con-
siderable amounts of connective tissue, it requires a moist heat and
should be cooked in a covered pan.

(3) Pork. g Place the roast in the pan with the fat side up. For
fresh pork, place in an oven at 325° to 350° F. and cook until done g
from 30 to 35 minutes per pound. Cured pork is cooked at a
slightly lower temperature (250° F.) and usually requires from 25
to 35 minutes per pound.

(4) Lamh. g Same as for roast beef.

c. Pan broiling. g ^The cuts which lend themselves best to pan
broiling are tender beefsteaks, lamb or mutton chops or steaks, ham,
and bacon. The broiling should be done on a hot plate or frying
pan, uncovered, pouring off fat as it accumulates in the pan. Sear
the meat quickly on both sides, and then cook more slowly until
the desired degree of doneness is reached. Bacon is put into a cold
pan, cooked slowly and the fat poured off frequently.

d. Braising. g Meat for braising should be cut quite thin. A lit-
tle fat is melted in a hot frying pan. The meat is browned quickly
on both sides and then cooking continued at a lower temperature in
a covered pan. The cuts of meat usually cooked by braising are
round steaks, veal steaks or chops, and pork chops.

e. Pot roast of beef. g Cuts of beef suitable for a pot roast are
chuck, ribs, clod, round, and rump. Rub the roast with salt, pepper,
and flour. Brown the meat on all sides in a small amount of
melted beef fat. After searing, add a small amount of water, cover
tightly, and simmer until tender. Time required : about 3 hours.

f. Stewing. g A. stew is a dish made from small pieces of meat.
This is an excellent way to utilize trimmings and less tender cuts of
meat. The vegetables are added to stews at the time and in the
order required to cook them satisfactorily with the least loss of
nutritive value. There are three methods for making stews:

(1) The meat may be browned before the water is added. This
gives the meat a “roast” flavor and the gravy a rich color.

(2) The meat may be plunged into boiling water. This will not
have the rich flavor of the browned meat but the vegetables cooked
with the stew will have more of the meat flavor.

(3) The meat may be placed into cold water and brought to a
simmer. The broth in which the meat is cooked will have a rich
flavor and the meat eaten by itself will be somewhat tasteless.


Digitized by


Google


89


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

67 THE ARMY COOK

