Poultry_g_a_General___Poultry_includes_those_birds_which_are
usually raised on farms for their flesh and eggs. The principal


Digitized by Google


66


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-^05
34


classes of poultry are chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Turkey is
included in the ration for Thanksgiving Day and for Christmas, but
chicken is the class of poultry most used in the mess. Ducks and
geese are seldom used in Army messes. Ducks yield a smaller
amount of food than any other class of poultry and are usually high
in price. Geese are usually less expensive and yield a good propor-
tion of edible meat, but are not so popular because of their sup-
posed greasiness. When cooked properly, roast goose is very tasty
and a desirable change from the other classes of poultry. Ducks
and geese have no white meat such as is found on the breasts of
turkeys and chickens. Chicken is the only class of poultry which
is commonly served to the mess fried or fricasseed.

h. Chickens^ kinds and uses . g There are four principal classes of
chickens: broilers, fryers, roasters, and fowl. Broilers and fryers
are young birds with tender flesh and are best suited for broiling or
frying. They are too small to roast satisfactorily and have too little
fat on them to be used for stew or fricassee. Fresh broilers can be
found on the market during June and July, and fresh fryers during
July, August, and September of each year. At all other seasons
fresh broilers and fryers are both scarce and expensive, but they
may be procured from cold storage during this time, if desired.
Fowl and roasters best meet the needs of the Army mess. Fowl,
which are fat hens over 1 year of age, are usually somewhat tough
and therefore used for stew and fricassee. The best grades of hens
are sold as fowl and usually are kept in cold storage; stewing hens
are the poorer grade. They can be bought fresh at any time of the
year. Roasting chickens are quick-grown young cockerels. Their
meat is tender, and they are excellent for roasting. Fresh roasters
are found on the market from September to January; at other
times frozen roasters may be procured. Cocks (old roosters) and
stags (male birds with marked masculine characteristics) should
never be used by Army messes. Age is determined by the size and
development of the birds, the condition of the shanks, claws, and
spurs, and the condition of the cartilage of the breastbone. Young
birds are lankier and rangier than mature (old) birds, and the head,
wattles, and comb are undeveloped. The shanks (lower leg) of
young birds are smooth and bright, while with increasing age the
shanks become roughened, scaly, and dull colored. On broilers the
spur is scarely noticeable; on fryers it shows as a small rounded
knob ; on roasters the spur is more prominent, but not hard ; on stags
the spur becomes longer and harder. The claws of young birds are
short, slender, and pointed, while on old birds they become long,


Digitized by


Google


67


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-4Q5

34


THE ARMY COOK


dull, and stubby. The cartilage at the rear (lower) edge of the
breastbone is soft and pliable in young birds while as the bird grows
older this cartilage gradually turns to bone and becomes firm and
rigid. Cockerels and cocks have a greater development and usually
deeper color of wattles and comb and larger heads than pullets and
hens. Hens have a deeper, broader body, especially in the abdomen,
than cocks. The shanks and thighs of hens are much slenderer
than those of the male birds, and the spurs of the hen are small
and undeveloped. The neck, back, and tail feathers of the cock
are usually much heavier than those of the hen. A cook should
be able to recognize readily the different classes of birds in order that
he may determine which is the best manner of cooking and serving
them.

c. Turkeys^ kinds and uses . g ^Army specifications prescribe only
young turkeys for use in the mess. Here again age is reflected in the
size of the bird, condition of the breastbone, size of the dewbill and
beard, size of the spurs, and color of the legs. Young toms are more
rangy and leggy than hens. Hens have short, plump bodies ; small,
short legs and wings; small heads with small dewbills (the fleshy
growth just above the beak) , and either a small beard or none at all.
Old toms have a long, coarse beard, prominent dewbill, and large,
heavy spurs. The beard begins to grow on the breast of the male
turkey at the age of 2*4 months, and at 1 year old is from 3 to 5 inches
long, becoming longer each year. When about a year old, the turkey
hen begins to grow a beard, but it is always short compared with that
of the tom. The dewbill is always larger and more elastic in the male
(tom) than the female bird. Young toms have only a short, blunt
knob on the inside of the shank, while old toms develop a stout spur.
The hen turkey has only a small rudimentary spur or button. Tur-
keys’ feet are said to be black up to 1 year of age, assume a pinkish
color up to 3 years, and then gradually turn a dull gray. The
breastbone cartilage of the young turkey is always soft and pliable,
gradually becoming hard and firm as age advances.

d. To draxo and clean 'poultry. g (1) The poultry received by the
Army mess usually has been killed and bled, then dressed and chilled
or frozen. Dressed means that the feathers have been removed, but
dressed poultry practically never has been drawn (entrails removed) ;
therefore, if the mess receives dressed poultry it is necessary to re-
move the entrails after receipt. If the entrails have been removed
before being received by the mess, the poultry is called dressed and
drawn. Before drawing a bird the skin should be cleaned. The fine
hair found here and there on the skin can be easily removed by


Digitized by Google


68


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

34


singeing. This is done by holding the bird for a moment over a gas
flame, or any other clean flame, and turning it so that all portions of the
skin come in contact with the flame. Pin feathers are removed by
grasping them between the thumb and the blade of a paring knife
and pulling ihenr out. Next step (except in the case of turkeys) is
to cut off the head with a cleaver or a heavy butcher knife and
to remove the feet by cutting through the hock joint with a knife.
All of the tough, coarse skin on the hocks should be trimmed off. The
legs of turkeys contain a number of coarse tendons that are
objectionable if not removed. To do this, loosen the skin and the
ligaments on each side of the hock joint, and then twist the foot until
it is free except for the tendons. Then by hanging the bird up by
the feet and pulling straight downward, these tendons will pull out
of the leg muscles and remain attached to the feet (shank). The
first step in drawing a bird is to remove the crop, gullet, and wind-
pipe. Slit the skin covering the crop crosswise with a knife, and
loosen the crop all around with the fingers. Then cut the gullet be-
low the crop and close to the breastbone, and remove the crop and
neck part of the gullet by pulling. By thus removing these parts
first, the entrails remaining can be drawn out more easily. The
windpipe may have to be cut near the lungs to remove it readily, and
should be pulled out at this time.

(2) Next cut from the rear of the breastbone to the vent (anus)
and loosen the vent by cutting around it. Insert the hand into this
opening, grasp the intestines as far forward as possible, and draw
them out to the rear. All except the lungs should come out together.
The giblets (heart, liver, and gizzard) should now be separated from
the entrails and the remainder discarded. There is usually consider-
able fat attached to the intestines of geese which should be removed
and used for cooking or rendering. The blood vessels should be cut
away from the top of the heart. The gall bladder is attached to the
liver and should be carefully removed to avoid puncturing. No bile
should be allowed to come in contact with the meat, as this may impart
a very bitter flavor which is hard to remove. The inlet (gullet)
and outlet (intestine) of the gizzard should be cut as close to the giz-
zard as possible, and the gizzard opened by cutting through one side
down as far as the sac which lines the gizzard. This sac may be
entirely removed with the fingers if a little care is used and the sac
itself is not cut. The gizzards of geese have two disks of cartilage
on their inner surface, which generally should be removed by a knife.
The lungs are easily removed. They are soft and pulpy and lie in
the forward end of the cavity underneath the ribs and on either side


Digitized by


Google


69


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

34-35


THE ARMY COOK


of the backbone. They have no food value and should be removed.
The kidneys lie on either side of the backbone toward the rear of
the cavity. They are not easily removed entirely, and may be left in,
as they have some food value, and are palatable and edible. The oil
gland (bag) just above the tail should be removed with a knife, care
being taken to remove all of the gland. It can be distinguished from
the surrounding tissue by its darker color. The drawn and dressed
carcass is then ready for washing. It should be rinsed under a faucet,
allowing the cold water to run through it and over it, washing off any
stains or foreign matter. The carcass should never be soaked in
water. If the bird is to be roasted, it is now ready to be stuffed.
After stuffing, the cuts made for removing the entrails are sewed up
and the bird is ready for the oven. If the bird is to be used for any
other purpose than for roasting, it must be cut up. The wings, legs,
and thighs are unjointed with a knife, and the remainder of the
carcass cut into as many pieces as desired with either a knife or cleaver.

