Preparing_fresh_pork_g_a_General___The_preparation_of
pork for the mess does not require much work because the cuts are
of a size and form that are easily handled. The usual fresh cuts are
shoulders, fresh picnics, Boston style butts, loins, spareribs, neck
bones, and at some seasons of the j'^ear fresh hams or leg of pork.


Digitized by Google


50


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

25


h. One roast from light shoulder. g When the pork shoulder weighs
less than 12 pounds it can be made into a single boneless roll that
will be the right size and thickness for roasting.

(1) Remove the shoulder hock, with knife and saw, from immedi-
ately above the elbow joint.

(2) Take the collar, or skin, from the outside of the arm section
of the shoulder.

(3) Turn the meat over so that the fat side rests on the block.

(4) Split open the shoulder from the arm and blade sides. Cut
into the meat, parallel with the block, until the arm bones and blade-
bones are exposed.

(6) Unjoint and remove the arm bone.

(6) Cut meat free from undereneath the blade so that this bone
may be lifted out.

(7) Fold the boneless meat into a long roll and tie securely.

c. Two roasts from heavy shoulder. g single boneless roast from
a shoulder weighing much more than 12 pounds is apt to be quite
thick. While it can be roasted, a better plan is to split the heavy
shoulder into two boneless roasts, as follows :

(1) Cut off the hock, close above the elbow bone.

(2) Remove the collar, or skin, from the outside of the arm
section.

(3) The fat side should be resting on the block. Split the shoulder
open parallel with the block; begin at the shank end and follow the
natural seam that separates the inside and outside shoulder muscles.

(4) Lift off the boneless inside muscle. Roll and tie.

(5) Open the remaining section of the shoulder from the blade and
arm sides. Cut through the meat until the arm bones and blade-
bones are exposed. Remove these bones by cutting the meat loose
from them.

(6) Roll the boneless outside muscle into a long, narrow roast.
Tie with a few cords to hold it in shape during cooking.

d. Pork steaks from shoulder. g ^When pork shoulders are selling
for several cents a pound less than loin, it is an advantage to serve
shoulder pork and steak occasionally.

(1) Remove the hock and collar as described in &amp; and c above.

(2) With the knife and saw, cut steaks about one-fourth inch thick
from the arm section of the shoulder. Fat side of shoulder should
be up. Start at the shank end and continue cutting until the blade-
bone is reached.

(3) Turn the remaining section of the shoulder (Boston style
butt) so that blade steaks can be cut at right angles to the arm

61


Digitized by Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

25


THE ARMY COOK


steaks that were just removed. Start at the end where the bladebone
is exposed. Use knife and saw to remove the steaks.

e. Cushion roast from the picrdc. g ^The picnic is the lower half of
the pork shoulder. It includes the shank and arm sections. The
bone structure in the picnic shoulder makes this cut a difficult one
to carve if it is cooked with the bones in it. Prepared as a cushion
picnic roast, this section of the shoulder will present no carving
problem.

(1) Remove the hock and collar as described in &amp; above. '

(2) “Tunnel” out the arm bone. To do this, cut around the ends
of the arm bone from each side of the roast. Removing the bone
in this fashion leaves a good pocket in the boneless arm meat.

(3) Take the skin from the hock. Cut the meat from the shank
bones. Grind the boneless meat.

(4) Fill the pocket in the arm section with the ground shank
meat. Tie two strings around the roast to help hold the ground
meat in the pocket.

/. Carving Boston hutt roast. g ^The Boston style butt is the top
half of the pork shoulder. The bladebone may be removed from
the Boston butt before roasting, but if this is done the meat does
not hold together very well when the boneless roast is carved. Con-
sequently it is recommended that the Boston butt be cooked with
the bladebone in it. After roasting, it is a simple matter to run the
carving knife under the blade and lift the bone to one side. The
few ounces of meat attached to the blade and the ridge of the blade
can be separated from the bone with a small boning knife. The
meat underneath the bladebone is one solid piece which will carve j
easily.

g. Boneless roast from porh loin. g practical way to use the
pork loin as a roast is to remove the bones before cooking. This
assures an easily carved roast.

(1) Strip the tenderloin from its cradle of bones along the back-
bone.

(2) Remove the small section of bladebone from the shoulder
end of the loin provided this is not a bladeless loin,

(3) Loosen the loin meat from the feather bones by cutting
closely along these bones the full length of the loin.

(4) With inside of loin up, separate the hip bone from the back-
bone by running the knife through the slip joint. Lift hip bone
from meat by cutting closely around it.

(5) Turn the loin over so that it rests on the backbone with the
loin strip next to the cutter. Separate the strip from the ribs and
finger bones.

62


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TK 10-405

25


(6) Cut across the center of the boneless loin strip to separate
the meat into two pieces of equal length.

(7) Lay the two pieces together, fat sides out, with the thick ends
at opposite ends of the boneless roast. Tie the two pieces together
with cords spaced about 3 inches apart.

(8) The tenderloin may be tied in with the boneless roast, or it
may be cooked separately. The backbone may be used for another
meal.

h. Boneless chops from pork loin . g ^The customary procedure is
to use a knife and cleaver to cut pork chops. Unless the cleaver is
very sharp, and the man who is wielding it skilled in its use, the
pork chops are very likely to be full of bone splinters; also a large
percentage of them will be thin on one side and thick on the other,
thereby eliminating all possibility of cooking the meat uniformily.
All of these difficulties can be overcome by using a saw instead of a
cleaver, or by removing the loin strip and tenderloin from the back-
bone so that boneless chops can be served.

(1) Steps (1) to (5), g above, describe the making of a boneless
loin roast and how to separate the tenderloin and loin strip from
the bones in a pork loin.

(2) 'The tenderloin may be cut into pieces about 2 inches in length,
then stood on end and flattened (frenched) with the flat side of a
cleaver.

(3) For attractive boneless loin chops, cut them in double slices.
The loin strip should rest on the block, fat side up. If chops one-half
inck thick are desired, make a slice that thickness, stopping the knife
before it goes entirely through the meat. The second slice should be
the same thickness as the first one, but cut all the way through the
meat.

(4) Open out the two pieces of meat. This cut is called a butterfly
chop.

i. Cuttim^ sparerihs into individual ribs . g ^The object of the fol-
lowing instructions is to show a practical method of cutting spare-
ribs that will not only provide attractive servings, but at the same
time will eliminate disagreeable bone splinters.

(1) Remove the breastbone with a knife by cutting through the
cartilages that connect it with the ribs.

(2) Slice between the ribs.

(3) It is recommended that each rib be separated from its neighbor
before cooking, but if desired, two or more ribs may be left attached
together.

(4) The important thing to remember is to avoid cutting across


Digitized by Google


53


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

25


THE ARMY COOK


the center of the ribs with a cleaver; the cleaver cannot help but
make bone splinters. Bone splinters are not only a nuisance but
they are dangerous.

j. One roast from light fresh ham. g K. light, fresh ham (leg of
pork) weighing less than 12 pounds, like a light shoulder, may be
made into a single boneless roll that will be about the right size for
roasting. The following steps illustrate an easy method of making
the boneless fresh ham roast:

(1) Kemove the hock at the stifle joint.

(2) With a knife, lift the skin from the outside. A “skinned”
ham will have only a narrow collar, while the outside of a “regular”
ham will be covered with skin.

(3) Trim meat from outside of aitchbone. Remove the aitchbone
by unjointing it from the leg bone and cutting it free from the leg
meat.

(4) Split the inside muscle over the top of the leg bone.

(5) Run the knife lengthwise through the inside muscle, with the
tip of the blade sliding along the cushion side of the leg bone. Cut
meat free from leg bone so that the bone can be lifted from the meat.

(6) Remove the kneecap from the shank end of the knuckle side
of the ham.

(7) Roll and tie the boneless meat into shape.

k. Two roasts from heavy fresh ham . g ^AVhen the fresh ham
weighs much more than 12 pounds, it is advisable to make it into two
boneless roasts. The two rolls will be uniform in size and of a
thickness that will be very satisfactory for roasting.

(1) Separate the hock at the stifle joint.

(2) Remove skin from outside of ham.

(3) Take out the aitchbone by unjointing it from the leg bone and
cutting it free from the meat.

(4) With the face or inside of the ham up, split it lengthwise into
two equal-sized pieces.

(5) The cushion piece will be thick in the center, and the end where
the aitchbone was removed will be fairly thin. Lay the thick part
of the cushion over the thin end. This is done by starting at the
shank end and cutting a layer of cushion meat that will be thick
enough, when folded over the thin end, to make the roll uniform.
Stop the knife before the cushion slice has been cut free.

(6) Tie a few cords around the cushion roast to hold it in shape.

(7) Remove the leg bone and kneecap from the knuckle half of
the split fresh ham.

(8) Tie with four or five pieces of cord.


Digitized by Google


54


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

26-27


