Preservation_of_color__g_Vegetables_naturally_fall_into_four
groups of color : green, yellow, red, and creamy white.

(1) Chlorophyll, the coloring pigment of green vegetables, is easily
destroyed by heat and acid. When green vegetables are cooked for a
long time in a small amount of water or steam in a covered vessel
or under pressure, the chlorophyll is decomposed. Vegetables which
can be quickly cooked, such as spinach or mustard greens, will retain
their green color if not overcooked, but other items which require
20 to 30 minutes to cook will lose a considerable amount of their
green color. The general rule for the preservation of green color is
to drop them into boiling water and cook them uncovered for the
shortest possible time.

(2) Yellow color found in carrots, squash, and sweet potatoes comes


Digitized by Google


92


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

60


from a class of pigments called “carotinoids” which is always asso-
ciated with the chlorophyll in green vegetables, but remains invisible
until the latter is dissipated. This yellow color is largely due to
carotene which the body transforms into vitamin A. It is relatively
stable to heat but is destroyed by oxidation. It is necessary to con-
sider these facts when cooking yellow vegetables. When green vege-
tables are overcooked the chlorophyll is dissipated, and the little
which remains, together with the yellow pigment, gives the item a
greenish bronze appearance. The yellow pigment is very stable and
vegetables which have only this color can be cooked in any method
without affecting any color change, but overcooking will tend to
destroy carotene. When yellow vegetables turn dark brown it is
usually the result of oxidation (improper care after preparation for
cooking, and overcooking) or a scorching or caramelization of the
sugar content.

(3) Red color is rather rare, being found in beets, tomatoes, red
cabbages, and radishes. This color will remain red in the presence
of acid but turns to violet or purple when cooked in an alkaline water.
To preserve the red color when cooking red vegetables a little vinegar
or lemon juice should be added to the water. Tomatoes and unpeeled
beets can be cooked without added vinegar and retain their color
because they have sufficient acid content. The acid also tends to retard
the destruction of ascorbic acid.

(4) White vegetables are fairly stable in heat. White vegetables
will turn a grayish color when a long time is consumed in the cooking.
Discoloration can be avoided by the simple expedient of a “short cook,”
that is, only enough to make the vegetable tender.

c. Preservation of fia/oor . g So far as cooking for retention of flavor
is concerned, vegetables divide themselves into three classes : the cab-
bage family, which includes brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and turnips ;
the onion family, including garlic, shallots, and chives; all other
vegetables.

(1) The vegetables of the cabbage family contain sulfur compounds
which break up easily under the application of heat and produce prod-
ucts which are disagreeable to the sense of taste and smell. One of
these substances is hydrogen sulfide, the same gas which causes rotten
eggs to have such an offensive odor. Decomposition of the sulfur com-
pound is brought about by long cooking or by cooking at low tempera-
tures, which should be avoided. Vegetables of the cabbage family
should never be cooked in a pressure cooker as all of the volatile acids
evolved from the vegetables are retained. Such vegetables should be
cooked in the shortest possible time in an uncovered vessel and in a
large amount of water.


Digitized by


Google


93


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
60


THE ARMY COOK


(2) The onion family is really the “strong-juiced” group. They
obtain their strength from certain volatile and aromatic substances
formed in the growing stage. They do not behave like the cabbage
family in cooking, for they do not form new odors or flavors but
simply loose part of those present. When heat is applied, the volatile
substances begin to dissipate with the steam. The properties which
provide a pleasing flavor do not always provide a pleasing odor.
With long cooking, the flavor is entirely volatilized and the resultant
product is insipid and flat in flavor. Thus the flavor of these vege-
tables is controlled through the length of time they are cooked.

(3) All other vegetables lose flavor when cooked in a large amount
of water and the method best suited for their preparation is to cook
them in the least possible amount of water, or in a steamer or pressure
cooker.

d. Preservation of nutrients . g The inherent nutritive value of foods
may be affected by storage, preparation, cooking, and service. It is
necessary to give preference to those procedures which will retain
the maximum nutritive value. In general, foods should be stored in
a cool place ; prepared with a minimum of handling, soaking, or re-
moval of parts; and cooked the shortest time and at the lowest tem-
peratures compatible with palatability. Food should be served as soon
as possible after it is done. The three principally employed methods
of cooking vegetables are baking, steaming, and boiling. These will
be considered solely from the standpoint of nutrient savings.

(1) Baking means cooking in dry heat in an oven, with the addi-
tion of little or no water. This is a good method of cooking as nutri-
tive losses are small, the chief loss being vitamin C. There will be
some loss of Bj, depending upon the temperature, length of time the
product is baked, and if the skins are left intact.

(2) The next best method is steaming. This can be done either in
a vessel where the temperature never exceeds that of boiling or in a
pressure cooker where 249° F. can be attained. The cooking is accom-
plished without the addition of water to the vegetables except a small
quantity necessary for the steam. The special advantage of this
method lies in the fact that the only water which comes in contact
with the vegetables is the minute quantity which is formed by con-
densation of the steam.

(3) More nutrients are lost by boiling vegetables than by any other
method of cooking. The loss is in direct proportion to the time of
cooking and the exposed surface of the vegetables. When vegetables
are exposed to the solvent action of water, the smaller the pieces into
which they are cut, the greater will be the loss of nutrients. Some part


Digitized by Google


94


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

60-61


of the minerals and other nutrients which have escaped into the boiling
water can be recaptured by using the water in which the vegetables
are boiled for soup, and this should be done as far as possible.

