Seasoning_of_foods_g_a_All_foods_placed_on_the_mess_table
should be seasoned so as to have a pleasing flavor. The quantities of
seasoning given in recipes are only a guide; the expert cook seasons
to taste. Because of the varying amounts of moisture, fat, sugar,
etc., in foods, it is difficult to prescribe exact quantities of spices and
other seasonings. Sometimes the cook falls into the error of assum-
ing that because he has added pepper and salt the flavor is satis-
factory. The only way to determine this is to taste the food.
Always use a clean spoon for testing. It is well to remember that
seasoning, once in the food, cannot be removed. It is better to use
too little than too much.

h. Left-over foods have usually been previously seasoned and great
care must be used in adding seasoning, especially salt, when pre-
paring them for subsequent meals.

c. The full strength of most spices, as sages, marjoram, cloves, etc.,
is not immediately noticeable in the food to which added, but in-
creases as the food is cooked. The heat and moisture gradually
bring out the full strength.

d. Garlic is used to advantage in seasoning meats, gravies, sauces,
soups, salads, and salad dressings, but must be used with judgment,
as many men do not care for any flavor of garlic, and to most per-
sons a pronounced garlic flavor is objectionable. Garlic flavor, when
present, should be delicate, which may be obtained by rubbing the


Digitized by


Google


87


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
55-56


THE ARMY COOK


inside of the cooking utensil or salad bowl with a cut clove of garlic,
or the meat may be rubbed. A delicate flavor of garlic makes all
meats, especially roasts, more savory and appetizing, and gives a
tang to soups, stews, salad dressings, etc., which is very appealing.

e. As a general rule, food should be seasoned during the process
of cooking. Added flavoring and seasoning at the table cannot
make up for lack of proper flavoring and seasoning while cooking.
Vegetables should be cooked in salted water and more seasoning
added before serving, if necessary. Roasts and steaks may be sea- j
soiled during cooking or at time of serving. Pot roasts and stews
should be seasoned during cooking. Dishes prepared from ground
meats should be seasoned when prepared for cooking.

