Service_of_meals_g_a_General__Under_the_direction_of_the
mess sergeant, the senior cook on duty is responsible for the service
of meals; that is, that foods are ready at the proper time and placed
on serving dishes in an attractive manner. It is of little use to
exercise great care in cooking a food if it is to be sent to the mess
table presenting an finattractive appearance. On the other hand,
the plainest foods become appealing when served in an attractive
manner. Many men will eat an attractively served plain food which
they would not eat if served in an ordinary manner. Therefore,
every cook should know how to serve attractively.

h. Placing foods on dishes. g (1) Roast meats, as beef, veal, pork,
and lamb, should be of uniform thickness and the slices laid evenly
and neatly on the platter. If gravy is spilled on the edges of the
platter it should be wiped away.

(2) Soft foods, as mush, mashed potatoes, turnips, etc., should be
neatly rounded off, not merely thrown into the dish.

(3) Foods intended to be served hot, as soups, meats, vegetables,
beverages, etc., should be actually hot. Nothing is so disappointing
as lukewarm soup or coffee. Serving dishes should be kept warm.


Digitized by


Google


111


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405
75


THE ARMY COOK


either by being placed on the range mantel or by other means. Cold
foods should be actually cold, and the cook must use foresight to
chill them sufficiently in advance of serving to accomplish this. Hot
or cold foods should not be placed on the tables until just before the
men are seated ; other foods may be placed earlier.

(4) Pies and cakes should be neatly cut. Pieces of cake should be
neatly arranged on the serving dish without excess loose crumbs.

(5) A little cracked ice added to butter, olives, etc., and to fresh
raw vegetables, as radishes, green onions, lettuce, celery, sliced toma-
toes, etc., before they are sent to the tables makes these foods much
more appetizing.

(6) Fresh fruits, as apples, oranges, pears, grapes, bananas, etc.,
are much more palatable when served chilled, and therefore should be
thoroughly chilled before serving. It is economical and good mess
practice to halve oranges, apples, and pears before serving, to pre-
vent their being carried from the mess hall, and to encourage the con-
sumption of flesh fruits at the table. A saving can be made in this
way, as some men will not eat a whole apple or other fruit ; also the
freshly cut fruit seems to have a greater appeal to the men. Large
bunches of grapes should be cut into smaller bunches.

c. Garnishing. g (1) Gerveral .  One of the best ways to make food
attractive is by garnishing. The effect of color contrast is very
pleasing. For example, a cabbage salad is much more attractive if
a few strips of pimento and green pepper are spread over the top
of the salad. A little paprika sprinkled over mashed potatoes or
potato salad makes them more appetizing and appealing.

(2) Methods . g Following are some methods of garnishing:

(a) Many materials may be used to garnish roast meats. Sprinkle
parsley over the meat and arrange a little around the edge of the
platter. Add a few slices of fresh tomato, or a few french fried
potatoes, or small quantities of green lima beans, diced celery, small
whole boiled onions, green peas, sliced green pepper, or cooked car-
rots and turnips to the serving platter.

(5) When liver and bacon are served, instead of placing all the
bacon in a separate dish, lay a few strips over the liver.

(c) Baked fish, salmon hash, fried oysters, etc., may be garnished
with a few crescent-shaped slices of lemon and may also be garnished
with a little parsley and a few pieces of french fried potatoes.

(d) Soups, stews, and gravies are improved in appearance by
sprinkling a little chopped parsley-over the surface just before serving.

(e) Macaroni and cheese should be sprinkled with paprika.

(/) Garnish spinach with sliced hard-boiled eggs.


Digitized by Google


112


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
. 75


{g) Small slices of cheddar cheese with apple pie are much appre-
ciated.

(A) A small quantity of sliced green peppers greatly improves the
flavor of stewed tomatoes, especially if cooked with the tomatoes dur-
ing the last few minutes of cooking.

(i) Many types of pudding can be greatly improved in taste and
appearance by topping with shredded coconut and canned sour red
cherries. Diced pineapple spread over cornstarch or tapioca pudding
and then topped with thinly spread coconut improves appearance and
adds to flavor.

(3) Materials used for garnishing . g Following is a list of some of
the materials which can be used for garnishing. The quantity re-
quired and the cost are small :

Asparagus, in whole spears.

Bacon, fried.

Beans, lima, green, canned or cooked.

Beets, canned or cooked, sliced, diced, or cut into fancy shapes.
Cabbage, shredded.

Canteloupe and other melons, cut into small balls.

Carrots, cooked, whole, halved, sliced, or cut into fancy shapes.
Cauliflower, small cooked pieces.

Celery, in stalks, sliced, or diced.

Celery leaves.

Cheese, cut or grated, or cream cheese.

Cherries, red or green.

Coconut, shredded.

Cucumbers, sliced or cut into fancy shapes.

Eggs, hard-boiled, sliced.

Endive.

Fruits of all kinds.

Lettuce, leaves or pieces.

Olives.

Onions, mature, small, boiled whole or pickled.

Onions, mature, sliced raw.

Onions, young, green.

Paprika,

Parsley.

Peas, green, canned or cooked.

Peppers, green, sliced thin.

Pickles, any kind, whole, halved, sliced, or cut into fancy
shapes.

Pimentos, cut into strips.


451596 ‘g 42 -


113


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

75-77 .


THE ARMY COOK


Potatoes, french fried, or mashed and shaped into small balls,
or put on serving dishes or individual plates with a pastry
bag.

Radishes, whole, cut, or sliced.

Spinach, cooked.

Turnips, cooked, sliced, diced, or in fancy shapes.

Section VII
FIELD COOKING

Paragraph


General instructions 76

Army field ranges, installing and handling 77

Army gasoline field range M1937 7S

Installation of Army field range No. 1 in baggage car 79

Installation and use of Army field range M1937 on troop trains 80

Improvised ice box 81

Garbage 82


