Shutter_air


(19) In case of accidental fire, close fuel valve first and remove
fire unit from cabinet.

e. Refueling fire unit. g Fill the fuel tank before each meal. The
tank full of fuel will operate the range for about 4 hours. If re-
filling is necessary, be certain the flame is out and that the burner is
not hot. Remember at all times that gasoline is treacherous if not
kept strictly in its place.

d. To clean fire unit. g (1) Clean the shields with steel wool and
gasoline or cleaning fluid.

(2) Remove dirt from the burner surface with the steel brush.
Clean the slots with the burner slot cleaner.

(3) Clean the mirror surface with water or gasoline. Do not use
steel wool on the mirror. Keep the mirror clean at all times.

(4) Remove the generator caps and take the filter case apart. Re-
move the generator yoke and lift out the generator. Clean all pas-


451596 ''g 42 -


129


Digitized by


Google


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM 10-405

78


THE ARMY COOK


sages thoroughly with the generator cleaner wire. Do not remove
the generator tvheg from the filter case body.

(5) The fuel jet should be cleaned once a day. To clean the fuel
jet, open the flame valve stem about one turn. Loosen the generator
yoke screw and remove the flame valve from the front panel. Re-
move the flame valve nut, using the two open end wrenches. Clean
the jet with the jet reamer, being sure that the reamer enters the
jet up to the shoulder on the reamer. Replace the jet and pull the
flame valve nut down moderately tight.

(6) The flame valve stem should be cleaned frequently. To clean
the flame valve stem, unscrew the packing gland and remove the stem
from the valve body. The packing gland must come out with the
stem. Clean the socket on the side of the flame valve body and be
certain that the end of the small generator tube fits properly in the
socket before the generator yoke screw is tightened. Only moderate
pressure should be used on this screw. Excessive tightening may
distort or rupture the front panel. If a leak occurs at the flame
valve socket, these parts should be reseated with valve grinding
compound.

(7) Clean the filter and insert a new filter disk each time the jet
is cleaned. After inserting a new filter disk in the filter cap be
certain that all dirt particles are removed from the ground joint
before the cap is put in place on the filter body.

(8) Apply graphite grease to the threads of the filter case cap
screw and to the under side of the filter case cap screw gasket.
Pull the cap screw down firmly with the wrench. Avoid excessive
tightening of this screw.

e. Cooking operations. g Suitable temperatures for boiling in the
cook pot and for roasting or baking in the roasting pan at the same
time are produced when the fire unit is operated in the bottom posi-
tion in the cabinet. Pies may be baked in the roasting pan. All
other baking should be done in the baking pan placed inside of the
roasting pan. Always put the cover on the roasting pan when
roasting or baking and keep the top door of the range closed. Fry-
ing in deep fat is done in the roasting pan without the cover, the fire
unit being used in the middle position. For griddle cooking the cover
of the roasting pan is turned over and placed on the brackets in the
top corners of the cabinet, the fire unit being in the top position.

f. Wood burning grate. g The wood burning grate (fig. 34) is pro-
vided with each unit of the range. It is carried, folded, in the bot-
tom of the cabinet when not in use. It is used in the bottom fire
unit position when the range is set up on the ground.


Digitized by Google


130


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405
78


g. General care of range. g (1) Handle the range cabinet and
burner carefully.

(2) Spilled food and grease should be removed promptly. Clean-
ing may be done with a scouring powder and rag or with steel wool
and gasoline.

(3) Do not allow water to enter fuel tank. Invert the fire unit
to remove water from the fuel tank.

(4) Remove rust from the burner slots by pickling for a few
minutes in 50 percent solution of hot muriatic acid.



Figure 34. g Wood burning grate set up for use.


(5) Apply graphite grease to the cook pot cradle rails occasionally.

(6) Keep water in the cook pot whenever it is over the fire.

(7) Protect the filter case ground joint. Avoid dropping objects
on the copper tubing.

(8) Use only the wrenches supplied with the range. Do not use
pliers on any of the nuts.

A. Troubles and their treatment. g (1) A leak at the filter case
ground joint, indicated by a yellow flame at the point of leakage, may
be caused by an injured ground joint surface or by a loose cap screw.

(2) Tighten a loose screw, though not excessively. Tapping the
filter case cap right over a leak may stop a small leak. Regrinding
will be necessary when the ground joint surfaces have been injured.
Grind as little as possible.


Digitized by


e


131


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA


TM. 10-^5

78


THE ARMY COOK


(3) Much trouble is caused by tightening -filter case cap scr&amp;vo too
tight. If the ground joint surfaces are clean, moderate tightening
is sufficient.

(4) A leak at the flame valve socket may be caused by dirt in the
socket, or by improper placing of the flame valve when the generator
yoke is tightened. Be very careful to put the generator tube into this
socket just right before the yoke screw is tightened. An injured
socket joint may be repaired by grinding in with valve grinding
compound.

(5) Excessive tightening of the generator yoke screw may fracture
the front panel. Very moderate pressure will make this joint tight.

(6) Unions on the tubing fittings should be set up moderately tight.

(7) A yellow flame may be caused by dirt at the point of the flame
valve stem. This may be removed by turning the valve stem back and
forth while the flame is in operation.

(8) If the flame valve jet is not cleaned frequently the opening will
be reduced by dirt. This condition may be remedied by closing the
flame valve tight and reopening. Ream a dirty jet at the first chance.

(9) A dirty filter disk reduces the passage of fuel through the disk,
and is indicated by a weak flame. Replace the dirty filter disk.

(10) If the passages in the filter case body and in the generator tubes
are allowed to go too long without cleaning they will choke and stop
the flame.

(11) These passages are very difficult to clean if they are allowed to
choke tight. Cleaning of these passages about twice a week will
prevent trouble.

i. Water heater . g The carrying case for the spare fire unit with each
set of range units is designed to be used as a water heater (fig. 35).
Two 24-gallon cans may be placed on this heater. The shield, for use
on the can being heated, is carried inside of one of the cans. It is
placed around the can being heated to hold the heat to the wall of
the can.

]. List of replacement parts (figs. 36, 37, and 38).

Number * Name

Shutter_air

