Smoked_meats_g_a_General__Smoked_meats_play_an_impor
tant role in the Army menu, especially during field maneuvers when
refrigeration facilities are limited. Properly cured hams and bacon
cannot be classified as nonperishable, but they can be kept much
longer without refrigeration than could possibly be expected of a
piece of fresh meat. In the packing house the supervision of the
cellars and the curing of meat cuts is considered a very essential
phase of the plant operations, and it is work that requires close and
constant attention.

h. Curing and smoking meat. g For Army use bacon is dry cured
or dry salt cured. Hams are sweet pickle cured. After the curing
process is completed the meat is sent to the smokehouse. Here it is
himg in rows over smouldering hardwood fires.

c. Kinds of smoked meat. g ^The principal smoked meats are : hams,
bacon, picnics, shoulder butts, jowl squares, briskets, and beef ham
sets (dried beef). There are two styles of smoked ham: regular and
skinned. The regular hams are marketed with the outer skin and fat
remaining intact. The name “skinned ham” is self-explanatory. It
means that about half of the outer skin and part of the fat were
removed before the ham was smoked. Smoked picnics (calas) are
pork shoulders with the butt portion removed just beyond the knuckle
bone. Shoulder butts are boneless. They are made from the eye
muscle of the Boston style butt. The term “bacon” is applied to
smoked bellies, though jowl squares and briskets are sometimes re-
ferred to as bacon squares and bacon briskets. 'Canadian style bacon
is made from the boneless loin strip.

d. Quality of smoked meat. g ^Nearly all packers make from one to
three grades of most of the smoked meat products. The grade of
the finished product depends upon the curing method, quality of the
fresh meat, and the way it was trimmed. Fancy bacon and hams are
cut from the best quality pork and have smooth, thin skin and firm
white fat. The meat is fine grained "and bright colored. The bacon
is free from “seeds.” The lower grades are usually defective in one
or more of the preceding characteristics.

