Soap_making_g_a_Boiled_hard_soap__Dissolve__pound_of
soda lye (sodium hydroxide, ordinary issue lye) in 2 quarts of water.
In another container (5-gallon capacity) melt 5 pounds of clean fat


Difitized by


Google


253


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-^5

THE ARMY COOK

or tallow, scrap or drippings, in 2 gallons of water. As soon as all
the fat is melted add about % pint of the dissolved lye. Boil over
a slow fire. Taste from time to time until the biting taste of the soap
liquid has disappeared. Ad&lt;l water to replace that boiled away.
Add another i/4 pint of lye as before and continue boiling, tasting, and
adding lye and water in the same manner until the lye is consumed.
The liquid will then become like lioney in consistency and will be
transparent as it drops from a spoon. Add about ^ pound of salt.
Boil until the soap separates from the lye water, has lost its honey-
like appearance, and drops off a spoon or wooden paddle like greasy
water. A small quantity pressed between the thumb and first finger
will not feel greasy but will flatten into thin scales if the soap is
finished. Simmer about 10 minutes and the piwess is complete.
Skim off the soap which floats on the surface, place in a suitable mold
or molds, and set aside to harden.

&amp;. So/t Hoap . g Use 1 quart of the soap made according to the above
formula but not hardened. Boil in a large kettle with 4 gallons of
water until clear and uniform in appeaiance. Set aside to cool.

c. Impecfion of map. g (1) Cut a piece of soap in two and place
the tongue on the fresh surface.

(«) If the soap is very sharp to the taste, not enough grease has
been used.

(ft) If the soap feels very greasy, too much grease has been used.

(c) If the soap tastes sharp and also feels gi'easy, it has not been
mixed or boiled properly.

(2) A soap that is sharp to the taste and makes a good lather is
much prefei red for scrubbing purposes.

d. If the hard soap in process of setting is slightly soft and it ap-
pears that it will not hai*den, this difficulty may be overcome by at-
taching a short piece of rubber hose to the spout of an ordinary
teakettle and placing the other end of the hose in the bottom of the
soap kettle, thus introducing steam. In this way heat is obtained
by using wet steam instead of the heat being applied to the bottom
of the kettle. Available steam may also be drawn from boilers in
lieu of the kettle method. A drier mixture and a harder soap result.

