Soups_g_a_General___When_beef_is_issued_in_carcass_form_the
bones should not be discarded; they should be used for soup stock.
An inspector never finds a raw bone in the garbage can of a well-
conducted mess. Soups can be made the means of preventing waste
by incorporating in them food which might otherwise be wasted,
such as all raw beef bones, excess liquid from canned vegetables, left-
over cooked vegetables, and vegetable scraps (celery, onion, and
beet tops, lettuce, and cabbage trimmings). If meat is used in soup,
it should be cut into small cubes, as this aids in dissolving the meat
juices into the soup by exposing more surface to the heat.

h. Soup stock . g pot for soup stock should be found in every
Army kitchen. To make soup stock, crack the bones and cut the
meat into small pieces. Put bones and meat in a large container
with a close-fitting cover and add 1 quart of water for each pound
of meat and bones. Heat slowly to the simmering point and add
salt; simmer for 4 to 6 hours, then cool. Fat will form on the top
after cooling and should not be taken off until the time to use the
stock, as this layer of fat acts as a preservative by excluding the air.
In warm weather soup stock may sour if kept for more than 24 hours.
If neceessary to keep longer than 24 hours, the stock should be steri-
lized by being brought to a boil at intervals of 24 hours or less. Stock
can be used as the base for either gravies or soups and to enrich many
dishes, such as hash, meat loaf, and sauces.

c. Value as food . g Soups may provide appreciable amounts of min-
erals and sometimes vitamins. Thick or cream soups also provide
appreciable amounts of energy. Soups have an important place in
the menu. In addition to their food value, they stimulate the flow of
digestive juices and thus aid digestion. Soup should always be
served very hot.

d. How made. g (1) Most soups are made by first making a stock.
This stock is the base of the soup. It gives strength and flavor.
Before making the soup the stock is allowed to cool. This results
in the fat rising to the top and hardening so that it can be removed
easily. It should be removed to prevent the soup being greasy. To
the stock the cook adds mixed vegetables if a vegetable soup is
desired, or beans if bean soup is desired, etc. Each soup should be
well seasoned with salt, pepper, and other spices such as bay leaves
or marjoram. Meat may be added to many soups, if desired.

(2) Some soups are made without stock. These are usually cream


Digitized by


Google


96


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

61


THE ARMY COOK


soups (cream of cabbage, cream of celery, etc.) However, a stock
may be used as the base of cream soups if desired, for the added
flavor and nutritive value it gives.

e. Kinds . g (1) Thin smips .  Thin soups like bouillon and con-
somme are not often served in Army messes as most soldiers prefer
a thick soup ; however, bouillon or consomme, if served occasionally,
is acceptable and gives variety.

(а) Bouillon. g k. soup stock made from lean beef, clarified and
seasoned.

(б) Consomme . g A soup made from two or more kinds of meat,
clarified and served either hot or cold.

(2) Cream sowps.g Cream soups are made by boiling vegetables (as
cabbage, celery, tomatoes, etc.) in water or stock, with seasoning,
until the vegetables are tender, then thickening with a batter made
from flour and fat and adding milk just before serving. Use of an
acid vegetable (as tomatoes) sometimes causes the milk to curdle.
This can be prevented by adding a pinch of soda (or about 1 tea-
spoonful for 100 men). If too much soda is added, the soup will
have a disagreeable soda taste. Cream soups include cream of
asparagus, cabbage, celery, and tomato.

(3) Purees . g Purees are made from vegetables (or fish) which
are cooked in stock until very tender and then forced through a
colander or sieve to make a mush, which is then put back into the
stock. A batter of flour and fat is added to thicken the soup, which
is then allowed to simmer about 1 hours before serving. Milk may
be added if desired. Purees include puree of beans, carrots, green
peas, lima beans, potato, tomato, etc.

(4) Oyster stew . g Oyster stew (sometimes called oyster soup) is
made by adding flour to the liquor drained from the oysters, to make
a thin batter, which is added to the soup stock for thickening and
flavor. The oysters are added just before serving. The stew is then
seasoned and boiled for 5 minutes. Milk may be used if desired, and
improves the flavor.

(5) Chowders . g Chowders are soups usually made from fish or
clams, although corn or potatoes are occasionally used instead. Vege-
tables and diced bacon are usually added. The vegetables and bacon
may be boiled in stock with the fish or clams, etc., until tender; or
when onions and bacon are included, they may be browned in a
frying pan before being added. Chowders are usually thickened
with a batter of flour and melted fat. Milk is often added just before
serving. Chowders should be well seasoned. They include clam,
codfish (or other fish) , corn, and potato chowders.


Digitized by i^oogie


96


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

61-63


(6) Meat soups. g ^Meat soups are made by simmering meats (usu-
ally beef) or poultry (usually chicken) until tender, then dicing
the meat and adding to stock. Usually rice is added.

