Storage_of_foods_g_a_General___All_foods_spoil_more_rapidly
at warm temperatures than at cold. This applies especially to highly
])erishable foods, such as meats, fish, butter, eggs, milk, and certain
fruits and vegetables. Excessive dampness contributes to the growth
of mold and consequent spoilage.

1). RefHgeration g temperature.^ humidity., air motion.  (1) The
pur|&gt;ose of refrigeration in the mess is to reduce, by means of con-
trolled cold air, the growth and activity of factors which cause
spoilage. The refrigerator should be used only for highly perishable
items. Products placed in the refrigerator unnecessarily may cause
overcrowding and result in poor operation and unsanitary conditions.
Foods which are spoiled should never be placed in the refrigerator.
Excessive dampness may l)e caused by poor air circulation or spilled
liquid and is as undesirable in the refrigerator as anywhere else.

(2) The mess refrigerator should produce a storage temperature of
r)0° F. or lower, whether cooled' by ice or mechanical means. A lower


Digitized by Google


10


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10^405

15


temperature is more desirable and 40° F. may be obtained in refrig-
erators properly designed for that purpose.

(3) Care should be used when storing food in the refrigerator, in
order to avoid interference with the air circulation. Cold air is
heavier than warmer air, hence the air is naturally circulated down-
ward from the cooling coils or melting ice, and upward through the
storage space, continuing to the ceiling where it moves across to the
cooling section, is cooled, and again moves downward on another
cycle. Good air circulation is necessary to produce a refrigerator
temperature of 42° F., which is 10° above the melting point of ice.
Larger size refrigerators may be equipped with small electric fans
to make the air motion more positive and effective. In this design,
the air is drawn upward by the fan, through the cooling section,
and discharged across the ceiling where, due to its temperature and
weight, it moves downward through the storage space.

c. Operation of refrigerators. g (1) Keep the refrigerator clean by
frequent washing and wiping. Thoroughly scrub it out at regular
intervals, at least once a week with soap and hot water.

(2) Ice-cooled refrigerators, and so-called wet-coil mechanically
cooled refrigerators, are equipped with drain lines to carry away
water from melting ice and condensate. Keep the drain pipe open.
It should be disconnected and flushed out with hot water once a
week to remove accumulations of slime which will form. The drain
trap in the floor of the refrigerator should likewise be kept in good
working order. Provision should be made to drain away the water
outside the kitchen so that insect breeding is minimized.

(3) The doors should fit tightly all around. There should be no
uncovered openings in the floor of the refrigerator which will permit
the loss of cold air or the admission of insects. If repairs are needed,
report the matter.

(4) Keep the refrigerator doors closed as much as possible. Air
circulation is disrupted and cold air is lost with each opening of the
door.

(5) Do not place food in the ice compartment of an ice-cooled re-
frigerator. Do not wrap the ice with paper or any other material.
This interferes with the air movement over the surface of the melting
ice and reduces the air cleansing and refrigeration capacity of the
refrigerator.

(6) Hang fresh meat on hooks. Avoid piling. Do not hang meats
so that pieces touch each other. Where blood may drip from meat,
dishes should be placed underneath. Do not pack vegetables too
closely.


Digitized by


Google


11


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

15


THE ARMY COOK


(7) Food carried too long will eventually spoil in the best refriger-
ator. Use all left-over foods as soon as possible. Avoid stocking an
oversupply.

(8) The ice compartment* of an ice-cooled refrigerator should be
kept well filled for best results. It should never be permitted to get
lielow one-third full.

(9) Do not expect any refrigerator to perform efficiently when
subjected to abuse of the foregoing rules, or if located in too close
proximity to cooking ranges.

d. Mechanical refrigerators. g (1) Mechanically cooled mess re-
frigerators may be of two different types :

(«) The so-called dry-coil type operates with a cooling unit tem-
perature which is below 32° F., the freezing point of water. Moisture
deposits on this surface in the form of frost. Although this type may
be adjusted to produce a lower refrigerator temperature, the wide
temperature difference between the cooling unit and the air of the
refrigerator causes a low relative humidity or dry air. Leafy vege-
tables, such as lettuce, spinach, and celery may be wrapped in a wet
covering to prevent wilting. Products high in moisture content, which
may pick up undesirable flavors, may best be placed in covered con-
tainers, although it is not considered good practice to tightly cover
products consisting of living cell structure, such as fresh fruits and
vegetables. Frosted coils should be frequently defrosted by means of
shutting down the unit, never by the use of hot water or by scraping
or chipping. Accumulations of frost reduce the cooling value of the
unit.

(&amp;) The extended surface wet-coil type operates with a cooling unit
temperature above 32° F., the freezing point of water. Moisture de-
posits on this surface in the form of drops of water. An electric fan
circulates the air of the refrigerator through this cold, wet surface
where the air is cooled and some cleansing effect is accomplished.
The excess water is taken off through a drain. Due to the narrower
temperature difference prevailing, the relative humidity in the re-
frigerator is higher and no difliculty should be experienced with wilt-
ing or drying out of products. The functioning of this type of
refrigerator is quite comparable to a well-designed ice-cooled
refrigerator.

(2) Ice cubes are frozen only in the units that operate at a tempera-
ture below 32° F., the freezing point of water. The water may absorb
undesirable flavors before it is frozen and these may be transmitted
when the ice cubes are used in food or drink.


Digitized by Google


12


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10-405

15


e. Arrangement of food in refrigerator. g (1) The proper grouping
of products in mess hall refrigerators will promote sanitation, help
to prevent contamination from the absorption of unpleasant flavors,
and thus protect the original quality of the product.

(2) Two refrigerators are generally provided in each mess hall.
However, when only one is available, it should, if possible, be divided
and operated as two separate refrigerators.

(3) Fresh fruits and vegetables give off respiration gases (odors)
which in some cases are quite obnoxious. Fluid products, or those
high in moisture or fat content, readily absorb odors from other prod-
ucts resulting in off-flavors and loss of quality. Fresh eggs, butter,
milk, creamy lamb and veal, etc., are easily damaged in this manner.
Likewise, prepared foods, such as coleslaw, salads, gelatin (while
liquid), gravies, and sauces are subject to flavor damage. As an
example, the wet surface of a cut watermelon will become almost
inedible after being placed in a confined space with some fresh fruits
and vegetables.

(4) One refrigerator should be used only for eggs, dairy products,
fresh meat, and prepared or cooked foods of high moisture content
which are not highly odorous.

(6) The other refrigerator should be used for fresh fruits and vege-
tables and other products prepared or cooked, which are relatively
low in moisture content and distinctively flavored.

(6) Products in sealed containers may be placed in either refrig-
erator without becoming damaged or causing damage to other
products. However, it is not advisable to use covered containers for
other than cooked or prepared foods.

(7) Some perishable products need not be placed in the mess hall
refrigerators. It is seldom that products are carried beyond 2 or 3
days and the general supply room should be entirely suitable for these.

(8) The following is a list of products which ahovld always be prop-
erly plajced in one of the two refrigerators.

(a) First refrigerator.

Butter.

Cheese.

Cream.

Fresh eggs.

Fresh meat and meat products.

Milk and buttermilk.

Fresh poultry.

Cold cuts g delicatessen meats.


Digitized by


Google


13


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

15


THE ARMY COOK


Cooked or prepared foods (high in liquid content and not highly
odorous) such as coleslaw, salads, custards, puddings, liquid
gelatin, gravies, sauces, cooked vegetables, cooked fruit, and
cooked meat.

Note. g A ll cooked food should be permitted to cool before placing in the refrig-
erator.

(6) Second refrigerator.


Asparagus.

Spinach.

Beans, green or wax, snap.

Summer squash.

Beans, green limas.

Turnips, tops on.

Beets, small, tops on.

Tomatoes, ripe.
Apricots, ripe.

Broccoli.

Brussels sprouts.

Berries.

Carrots.

Cherries.

Cauliflower.

Currants, fresh.

Celery.

Cranberries.

Corn, green.

Figs, fresh.

Cucumbers.

Grapes.

Endive.

Nectarines, ripe.

Lettuce.

Peaches, ripe.

Okra.

Pears, ripe.

Peas, green, pod.

Plums, ripe.

Peppers.

Badishes.

Watermelons, not cut.


(c) Smoked meats., etc . g ^Uncut smoked meats, such as whole ham,
bacon, and bologna are preferably placed with the fruits and vege-
tables in the second refrigerator. When sliced or with exposed cut
surface, the first refrigerator is preferable.

(&lt;^) Ice . g ^Where the refrigerators are mechanically cooled and ice
is to be carried in one, it is more desirable to place the ice in the second
refrigerator. The resulting increased humidity will help keep the
products fresh and crisp and the ice is also beneficial in that the melt-
ing surface absorbs and carries away to the drains organic gases devel-
oped by the products in the confined space.

(9) Following is a list of products which should be kept in the sup-
ply room. They need not be placed in a refrigerator as some of them
may be damaged or cause damage if placed there. As an example,
dry onions may become damp and moldy.

Artichokes. Bananas.

Apples. Beets, mature.

Avocados. Cabbage.


Digitized by Google


14


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



THE ARMY COOK


TM 10&gt;405

16-17


Casabas.

Citrus fruits.

Dates, fresh.

Eggplant.

Fruits, dried.

Garlic.

Melons, honeydew, cantaloupes.
Nectarines, green.

Onions.

Parsnips.

Pears, green.

Peppers, cured, pod.

Peaches, green.

Plums, green.

Potatoes, white or sweet.
Pumpkins.


Rutabagas.

Squash, hubbard.

Tomatoes, firm.

Turnips, large.

Lard and lard substitutes.
Fish, dried, smoked or salted.
Glucose, sirups.

Honey.

Meat, canned.

Milk, evaporated, canned.
Molasses.

Nuts.

Oil, cooking.

Pickles and relish.

Sirups.


