Vitamins_g_The_vitamins_are_also_minute_substances_which_are
essential to life, growth and good health. Without them the body is
unable to function properly. They aid in the formation of bone and
teeth, the maintenance of the integrity of the tissues, and the utiliza-
tion of food. Vitamins aid the minerals in body-building and are
protective substances.

a. Vitamin A aids in maintaining a healthy condition in the respir-
atory, digestive, and urinary tracts, and is essential for good eyesight.
Foods that are major sources of vitamin A are liver, milk, and
other dairy products (especially summer butter), and leafy green
and yellow vegetables. It is the coloring matter, carotene, of the
latter foods, which is changed by the body into vitamin A. Vitamin
A, or carotene, is readily destroyed by exposure to the oxygen of the
air and by heat. It is important, therefore, to utilize fresh leafy green
and yellow vegetables as soon as possible.


Digitized by


Google


5


Original from

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA



TM 10-405

9-11


THE ARMY COOK


h. Vitamin B as it was originally discovered is now referred to as
the “Vitamin B complex” because it has been found to be made up of
several vitamins. Vitamins of the B complex are likely to be lacking
in the average diet unless an effort is made to see that they are
included. They are water-soluble and may be lost by soaking in water
or discarding the liquid in canned goods. Some of them are readily
destroyed by heat when food is cooked too long.

(1) Vitamin Bi (thiamine) aids in the utilization of carbohydrates
and stimulates a good appetite.

(2) Vitamin Bj (riboflavin or G) aids in the utilization of food,
and helps to keep the skin, hair, and eyes normal.

(3) Niacin (nicotinic acid) is concerned in the prevention of pella-
gra. The best sources are meats, while legumes, whole grains, and
green vegetables also contribute appreciable amounts.

(4) Other recently discovered factors are also part of the vitamin B
complex. They are usually present in foods which are good sources
of the other B vitamins.

c. Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) helps form strong bones and teeth
and helps keep the gums healthy and teeth firm. It is found chiefly
in citrus fruits (oranges, grapefruits, etc.), tomato juice, potatoes,
cabbage, and other green leafy vegetables. Vitamin C is water-soluble
and is readily destroyed by heat and oxygen. The losses in careful
cooking may be as much as 40 percent. By careless cooking, the losses
may be so great as to impair the adequacy of an otherwise good diet.

d. Vitamin D aids in building sturdy bones and teeth. The best
sources of vitamin D are sunshine, irradiated, evaporated, or whole
milk, irradiated cereals, butter, and eggs.

