When_any_of_the_foregoing_difficulties_occur_a_good_brew

of coffee can be made in an um by using a bag containing
ground coffee as described in the kettle method in the
same ratio of 1 pound of coffee to each 2^ gallons of
boiling water, as follows: Put the bag containing the
coffee into the urn. When water in a pressure boiler
actually boils, the safety valve will blow off steam. In
a gravity um a thermometer will indicate the boiling
point, 212° F. When boiling point is reached, measure
required amount of water into um. This can be done
by drawing water out of the boiler and pouring into um,
or if siphon is used the amount of water transferred to
urn can be measured by watching the water gauge on th^
boiler. While the water is being added, stir bag contain-
ing grounds with stick or paddle. Push bag up and
down f orcing“water through the grounds. Baise the bag
out of brew in 12 to 15 minutes, permitting surplus water
to drain into the um and then remove entirely. Serve
coffee at once. Clean the um bag, using the method
described under kettle method.


{e) (Added.) EmergeTi&amp;y kettle or pot method {ru&gt;t to he vsed
in urns ). g Sometimes a bag may not be available. In this case
ground coffee in proper proportion to water is poured into the kettle
or pot when water reaches the boiling point after which the utensil
is moved to back of stove in order to reduce the temperature of the
water. During brewing period of 10 to 12 minutes coffee should be
stirred occasionally, after which a small quantity of cold water
sprinkled into the brew will settle the groimds. This, however, will
interfere with the use of a faucet if utensil is so equipped ; therefore,
operator should ladle out the coffee being careful not to stir up the


grou^^ Never nse loose coffee in an urn due to difficulty in re-
movi|^.j^^mG@|x^ a stationary installation. Original fror

3^^ 5 UNIVERSITY Of CALIFOP.NIa



THE ARMY COOK


TM iO-405

C 3

(/) (Added.) Coffee^ iced . g ^Iced coffee should be made exactly
as hot coffee, but twice as strong, viz : 2 pounds of coffee to 2^ gallons
of water to compensate for the dilution that will result when ice is
added. This does not mean, however, that 7^ gallons of double-
strength coffee should be brewed to serve iced coffee to 100 men. It
means that 3 pounds of coffee should be brewed with, say, 4 gallons
of water, after which the melting of 25 pounds of ice will supply the
required balance of liquid needed per mess.
h. Ted.

• • • * • • »

(3) (Superseded.) One ounce of tea per gallon of water has

proved satisfactory for hot tea. This quantity will not be exceeded.

(4) One and one-half ounces of tea per gallon of water has
proved adequate for iced tea. This includes the water result-
ing from the melting ice. This quantity will not be exceeded.
Iced tea should be served in preference to hot tea when tem-
perature conditions permit.

(5) Bring the required quantity of water to a boil. Place the dry
tea in a clean cotton bag, tie the top, and drop the bag into the boiling
water. Tea expands in the water, therefore, leave plenty of room in
the bag for expansion. Allow the bag of tea to remain in the water
for 5 or 7 minutes, then remove it. If tea leaves are allowed to re-
main in the water longer than 7 minutes the tea becomes stronger
and bitter. Agitate the bag of tea three or four times during the

. period it is in the water. Stir the tea just before serving, to equalize
strength throughout. If not stirred the tea on the bottom of the
container will be stronger than that on top. Unlike coffee, tea may
be made several hours before serving, if kept in earthenware or glass
containers, as it does not lose its flavor and aroma. If lemons are
available, they may be sliced and served with the tea in lieu of milk,
for those desiring this.

(6) Tea to be used as an iced drink should be made in concentrated

form. Use the total required quantity of tea leaves, and one-fifth

the required amount of water. Prepare the same as hot tea, but a

sufficient time in advance to permit cooling. Just before serving,

add the remainder of the water, either cold water or chipped ice

or a combination of the two, and stir vigorously in order to equalize

strength throughout. Added lemon materially improves the flavor.
****••«

[A. a. 300.7 (7 Jan 44).] (C 3, 2 Peb 44.)

